The Academy Award for Best Production Design recognizes achievement for art direction in film. The category's original name was Best Art Direction, but was changed to its current name in 2012 for the 85th Academy Awards. This change resulted from the Art Directors' branch of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS) being renamed the Designers' branch. Since 1947, the award is shared with the set decorators. It is awarded to the best interior design in a film. The films below are listed with their production year (for example, the 2000 Academy Award for Best Art Direction is given to a film from 1999). In the lists below, the winner of the award for each year is shown first, followed by the other nominees in alphabetical order. Superlatives Winners and nominees 1920s 1930s 1940s 1950s 1960s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s 2020s See also BAFTA Award for Best Production Design Critics' Choice Movie Award for Best Production Design Individuals with multiple wins 11 wins Cedric Gibbons 8 wins Edwin B. Willis 7 wins Richard Day 6 wins Thomas Little Walter M. Scott 5 wins Lyle R. Wheeler 4 wins John Box Samuel M. Comer F. Keogh Gleason George James Hopkins 3 wins Edward Carfagno Stuart Craig William S. Darling John DeCuir Vernon Dixon Hans Dreier Dante Ferretti Paul S. Fox Alexander Golitzen Paul Groesse John Meehan Ray Moyer Francesca Lo Schiavo Jack Martin Smith 2 wins Ken Adam E. Preston Ames Herman A. Blumenthal Henry Bumstead Donald Graham Burt Gene Callahan Rick Carter George Davis Leslie Dilley Michael D. Ford George Gaines Russell A. Gausman Nancy Haigh Harry Horner William A. Horning Hugh Hunt Wiard Ihnen Emile Kuri Terence Marsh Catherine Martin William Cameron Menzies Urie McCleary John Myhre Gil Parrondo Robert Priestley Stuart A. Reiss Norman Reynolds Dario Simoni Robert Stromberg Richard Sylbert Joseph C. Wright Peter Young Notes References Best Production Design Awards for best art direction
Actresses (Catalan: Actrius) is a 1997 Catalan language Spanish drama film produced and directed by Ventura Pons and based on the award-winning stage play E.R. by Josep Maria Benet i Jornet. The film has no male actors, with all roles played by females. The film was produced in 1996. Synopsis In order to prepare herself to play a role commemorating the life of legendary actress Empar Ribera, young actress (Mercè Pons) interviews three established actresses who had been the Ribera's pupils: the international diva Glòria Marc (Núria Espert), the television star Assumpta Roca (Rosa Maria Sardà), and dubbing director Maria Caminal (Anna Lizaran). Cast Núria Espert as Glòria Marc Rosa Maria Sardà as Assumpta Roca Anna Lizaran as Maria Caminal Mercè Pons as Estudiant Recognition Screenings Actrius screened in 2001 at the Grauman's Egyptian Theatre in an American Cinematheque retrospective of the works of its director. The film had first screened at the same location in 1998. It was also shown at the 1997 Stockholm International Film Festival. Reception In Movie - Film - Review, Christopher Tookey wrote that though the actresses were "competent in roles that may have some reference to their own careers", the film "is visually unimaginative, never escapes its stage origins, and is almost totally lacking in revelation or surprising incident". Noting that there were "occasional, refreshing moments of intergenerational bitchiness", they did not "justify comparisons to All About Eve", and were "insufficiently different to deserve critical parallels with Rashomon". He also wrote that The Guardian called the film a "slow, stuffy chamber-piece", and that The Evening Standard stated the film's "best moments exhibit the bitchy tantrums seething beneath the threesome's composed veneers". MRQE wrote "This cinematic adaptation of a theatrical work is true to the original, but does not stray far from a theatrical rendering of the story." Awards and nominations 1997, won 'Best Catalan Film' at Butaca Awards for Ventura Pons 1997, won 'Best Catalan Film Actress' at Butaca Awards, shared by Núria Espert, Rosa Maria Sardà, Anna Lizaran, and Mercè Pons 1998, nominated for 'Best Screenplay' at Goya Awards, shared by Josep Maria Benet i Jornet and Ventura Pons References External links as archived 17 February 2009 (Spanish) 1997 films 1997 drama films Catalan-language films Films set in Barcelona Films directed by Ventura Pons Spanish drama films 1990s Spanish films
Animalia is an illustrated children's book by Graeme Base. It was originally published in 1986, followed by a tenth anniversary edition in 1996, and a 25th anniversary edition in 2012. Over four million copies have been sold worldwide. A special numbered and signed anniversary edition was also published in 1996, with an embossed gold jacket. Synopsis Animalia is an alliterative alphabet book and contains twenty-six illustrations, one for each letter of the alphabet. Each illustration features an animal from the animal kingdom (A is for alligator and armadillo, B is for butterfly, etc.) along with a short poem utilizing the letter of the page for many of the words. The illustrations contain many other objects beginning with that letter that the reader can try to identify (however, there are not necessarily "a thousand things, or maybe more", as the author states). As an additional challenge, the author has hidden a picture of himself as a child in every picture. Related products Julia MacRae Books published an Animalia colouring book in 2008. H. N. Abrams also published a wall calendar colouring book version for children the same year. H. N. Abrams published The Animalia Wall Frieze, a fold-out over 26 feet in length, in which the author created new riddles for each letter. The Great American Puzzle Factory created a 300-piece jigsaw puzzle based on the book's cover. Adaptations A television series was also created, based on the book, which airs in Canada. The Australian Children's Television Foundation released a teaching resource DVD-ROM in 2011 to accompany the TV series with teaching aids for classroom use. In 2010, The Base Factory and AppBooks released Animalia as an application for iPad and iPhone/iPod Touch. Awards Animalia won the Young Australian's Best Book Award in 1987 for Best Picture Story Book. The Children's Book Council of Australia designated Animalia a 1987 Picture Book of the Year: Honour Book. Kid's Own Australian Literature Awards named Animalia the 1988 Picture Book Winner. References External links Graeme Base's official website A Learning Time activity guide for Animalia created by The Little Big Book Club 1986 children's books Alphabet books Australian children's books Children's books about animals Picture books by Graeme Base Puffin Books books Puzzle books
International Atomic Time (abbreviated TAI, from its French name ) is a high-precision atomic coordinate time standard based on the notional passage of proper time on Earth's geoid. TAI is a weighted average of the time kept by over 450 atomic clocks in over 80 national laboratories worldwide. It is a continuous scale of time, without leap seconds, and it is the principal realisation of Terrestrial Time (with a fixed offset of epoch). It is the basis for Coordinated Universal Time (UTC), which is used for civil timekeeping all over the Earth's surface and which has leap seconds. UTC deviates from TAI by a number of whole seconds. , when another leap second was put into effect, UTC is currently exactly 37 seconds behind TAI. The 37 seconds result from the initial difference of 10 seconds at the start of 1972, plus 27 leap seconds in UTC since 1972. TAI may be reported using traditional means of specifying days, carried over from non-uniform time standards based on the rotation of the Earth. Specifically, both Julian days and the Gregorian calendar are used. TAI in this form was synchronised with Universal Time at the beginning of 1958, and the two have drifted apart ever since, due primarily to the slowing rotation of the Earth. Operation TAI is a weighted average of the time kept by over 450 atomic clocks in over 80 national laboratories worldwide. The majority of the clocks involved are caesium clocks; the International System of Units (SI) definition of the second is based on caesium. The clocks are compared using GPS signals and two-way satellite time and frequency transfer. Due to the signal averaging TAI is an order of magnitude more stable than its best constituent clock. The participating institutions each broadcast, in real time, a frequency signal with timecodes, which is their estimate of TAI. Time codes are usually published in the form of UTC, which differs from TAI by a well-known integer number of seconds. These time scales are denoted in the form UTC(NPL) in the UTC form, where NPL here identifies the National Physical Laboratory, UK. The TAI form may be denoted TAI(NPL). The latter is not to be confused with TA(NPL), which denotes an independent atomic time scale, not synchronised to TAI or to anything else. The clocks at different institutions are regularly compared against each other. The International Bureau of Weights and Measures (BIPM, France), combines these measurements to retrospectively calculate the weighted average that forms the most stable time scale possible. This combined time scale is published monthly in "Circular T", and is the canonical TAI. This time scale is expressed in the form of tables of differences UTC − UTC(k) (equal to TAI − TAI(k)) for each participating institution k. The same circular also gives tables of TAI − TA(k), for the various unsynchronised atomic time scales. Errors in publication may be corrected by issuing a revision of the faulty Circular T or by errata in a subsequent Circular T. Aside from this, once published in Circular T, the TAI scale is not revised. In hindsight, it is possible to discover errors in TAI and to make better estimates of the true proper time scale. Since the published circulars are definitive, better estimates do not create another version of TAI; it is instead considered to be creating a better realisation of Terrestrial Time (TT). History Early atomic time scales consisted of quartz clocks with frequencies calibrated by a single atomic clock; the atomic clocks were not operated continuously. Atomic timekeeping services started experimentally in 1955, using the first caesium atomic clock at the National Physical Laboratory, UK (NPL). It was used as a basis for calibrating the quartz clocks at the Royal Greenwich Observatory and to establish a time scale, called Greenwich Atomic (GA). The United States Naval Observatory began the A.1 scale on 13 September 1956, using an Atomichron commercial atomic clock, followed by the NBS-A scale at the National Bureau of Standards, Boulder, Colorado on 9 October 1957. The International Time Bureau (BIH) began a time scale, Tm or AM, in July 1955, using both local caesium clocks and comparisons to distant clocks using the phase of VLF radio signals. The BIH scale, A.1, and NBS-A were defined by an epoch at the beginning of 1958 The procedures used by the BIH evolved, and the name for the time scale changed: A3 in 1964 and TA(BIH) in 1969. The SI second was defined in terms of the caesium atom in 1967. From 1971 to 1975 the General Conference on Weights and Measures and the International Committee for Weights and Measures made a series of decisions that designated the BIPM time scale International Atomic Time (TAI). In the 1970s, it became clear that the clocks participating in TAI were ticking at different rates due to gravitational time dilation, and the combined TAI scale, therefore, corresponded to an average of the altitudes of the various clocks. Starting from the Julian Date 2443144.5 (1 January 1977 00:00:00), corrections were applied to the output of all participating clocks, so that TAI would correspond to proper time at the geoid (mean sea level). Because the clocks were, on average, well above sea level, this meant that TAI slowed by about one part in a trillion. The former uncorrected time scale continues to be published under the name EAL (Échelle Atomique Libre, meaning Free Atomic Scale). The instant that the gravitational correction started to be applied serves as the epoch for Barycentric Coordinate Time (TCB), Geocentric Coordinate Time (TCG), and Terrestrial Time (TT), which represent three fundamental time scales in the solar system. All three of these time scales were defined to read JD 2443144.5003725 (1 January 1977 00:00:32.184) exactly at that instant. TAI was henceforth a realisation of TT, with the equation TT(TAI) = TAI + 32.184 s. The continued existence of TAI was questioned in a 2007 letter from the BIPM to the ITU-R which stated, "In the case of a redefinition of UTC without leap seconds, the CCTF would consider discussing the possibility of suppressing TAI, as it would remain parallel to the continuous UTC." Relation to UTC Contrary to TAI, UTC is a discontinuous time scale. It is occasionally adjusted by leap seconds. Between these adjustments, it is composed of segments that are mapped to atomic time by a constant offset. From its beginning in 1961 through December 1971, the adjustments were made regularly in fractional leap seconds so that UTC approximated UT2. Afterward, these adjustments were made only in whole seconds to approximate UT1. This was a compromise arrangement in order to enable a publicly broadcast time scale. The less frequent whole-second adjustments meant that the time scale would be more stable and easier to synchronize internationally. The fact that it continues to approximate UT1 means that tasks such as navigation which require a source of Universal Time continue to be well served by the public broadcast of UTC. See also Clock synchronization Time and frequency transfer Notes References Footnotes Bibliography External links BIPM technical services: Time Metrology Time and Frequency Section - National Physical Laboratory, UK IERS website NIST Web Clock FAQs History of time scales NIST-F1 Cesium Fountain Atomic Clock Japan Standard Time Project, NICT, Japan Standard of time definition: UTC, GPS, LORAN and TAI Time scales
Alain Connes (; born 1 April 1947 in Draguignan) is a French mathematician, known for his contributions to the study of operator algebras and noncommutative geometry. He is a professor at the , , Ohio State University and Vanderbilt University. He was awarded the Fields Medal in 1982. Career Alain Connes attended high school at in Marseille, and was then a student of the classes préparatoires in . Between 1966 and 1970 he studed at École normale supérieure in Paris, and in 1973 he obtained a PhD from Pierre and Marie Curie University, under the supervision of Jacques Dixmier. From 1970 to 1974 he was research fellow at the French National Centre for Scientific Research and during 1975 he held a visiting position at Queen's University at Kingston in Canada. In 1976 he returned to France and worked as professor at Pierre and Marie Curie University until 1980 and at CNRS between 1981 and 1984. Moreover, since 1979 he holds the Léon Motchane Chair at IHES. From 1984 until his retirement in 2017 he held the chair of Analysis and Geometry at Collège de France. In parallel, he was awarded a distinguished professorship at Vanderbilt University between 2003 and 2012, and at Ohio State University between 2012 and 2021. In 2000 he was an invited professor at the Conservatoire national des arts et métiers. Research Connes' main research interests revolved around operator algebras. Besides noncommutative geometry, he has applied his works in various areas of mathematics and theoretical physics, including number theory, differential geometry and particle physics. In his early work on von Neumann algebras in the 1970s, he succeeded in obtaining the almost complete classification of injective factors. He also formulated the Connes embedding problem. Following this, he made contributions in operator K-theory and index theory, which culminated in the Baum–Connes conjecture. He also introduced cyclic cohomology in the early 1980s as a first step in the study of noncommutative differential geometry. He was a member of Nicolas Bourbaki. Awards and honours Connes was awarded the Peccot-Vimont Prize in 1976, the Ampère Prize in 1980, the Fields Medal in 1982, the Clay Research Award in 2000 and the Crafoord Prize in 2001. The French National Centre for Scientific Research granted him the silver medal in 1977 and the gold medal in 2004. He was an invited speaker at the International Congress of Mathematicians in 1974 at Vancouver and in 1986 at Berkeley, and a plenary speaker at the ICM in 1978 at Helsinki. He was awarded honorary degrees from Queen's University at Kingston in 1979, University of Rome Tor Vergata in 1997, University of Oslo in 1999, University of Southern Denmark in 2009, Université Libre de Bruxelles in 2010 and Shanghai Fudan University in 2017. Since 1982 he is a member of the French Academy of Sciences. He was elected member of several foreign academies and societies, including the Royal Danish Academy of Sciences and Letters in 1980, the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters in 1983, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1989, the London Mathematical Society in 1994, the Canadian Academy of Sciences in 1995 (incorporated since 2002 in the Royal Society of Canada), the US National Academy of Sciences in 1997, the Russian Academy of Science in 2003 and the Royal Academy of Science, Letters and Fine Arts of Belgium in 2016. In 2001 he received (together with his co-authors André Lichnerowicz and Marco Schutzenberger) the Peano Prize for his work Triangle of Thoughts. Books Alain Connes and Matilde Marcolli, Noncommutative Geometry, Quantum Fields and Motives, Colloquium Publications, American Mathematical Society, 2007, Alain Connes, André Lichnerowicz, and Marcel-Paul Schutzenberger, Triangle of Thought, translated by Jennifer Gage, American Mathematical Society, 2001, Jean-Pierre Changeux and Alain Connes, Conversations on Mind, Matter, and Mathematics, translated by M. B. DeBevoise, Princeton University Press, 1998, Alain Connes, Noncommutative Geometry, Academic Press, 1994, See also Bost–Connes system Cyclic category Cyclic homology Factor (functional analysis) Higgs boson C*-algebra Noncommutative quantum field theory M-theory Groupoid Spectral triple Criticism of non-standard analysis Riemann hypothesis References External links Alain Connes Official Web Site containing downloadable papers, and his book Non-commutative geometry, . Alain Connes' Standard Model An interview with Alain Connes and a discussion about it 1947 births Living people People from Draguignan 20th-century French mathematicians 21st-century French mathematicians Mathematical analysts Differential geometers Fields Medalists Clay Research Award recipients École Normale Supérieure alumni Academic staff of the Collège de France Institute for Advanced Study visiting scholars Foreign associates of the National Academy of Sciences Vanderbilt University faculty Foreign Members of the Russian Academy of Sciences Members of the French Academy of Sciences Members of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters Members of the Royal Danish Academy of Sciences and Letters London Mathematical Society
Allan Dwan (born Joseph Aloysius Dwan; April 3, 1885 – December 28, 1981) was a pioneering Canadian-born American motion picture director, producer, and screenwriter. Early life Born Joseph Aloysius Dwan in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, Dwan was the younger son of commercial traveler of woolen clothing Joseph Michael Dwan (1857–1917) and his wife Mary Jane Dwan (née Hunt). The family moved to the United States when he was seven years old on December 4, 1892, by ferry from Windsor to Detroit, according to his naturalization petition of August 1939. His elder brother, Leo Garnet Dwan (1883–1964), became a physician. Allan Dwan studied engineering at the University of Notre Dame and then worked for a lighting company in Chicago. He had a strong interest in the fledgling motion picture industry, and when Essanay Studios offered him the opportunity to become a scriptwriter, he took the job. At that time, some of the East Coast movie makers began to spend winters in California where the climate allowed them to continue productions requiring warm weather. Soon, a number of movie companies worked there year-round, and in 1911, Dwan began working part-time in Hollywood. While still in New York, in 1917 he was the founding president of the East Coast chapter of the Motion Picture Directors Association. Career Dwan started his directing career by accident in 1911, when he was sent by his employers to California, in order to locate a company that had vanished. Dwan managed to track the company down, and learned that they were waiting for the film's director (who was an alcoholic) to return from a binge (and allowing them to return to work). Dwan wired back to his employers in Chicago, informing them of the situation, and suggested that they disband the company. They wired back, instructing Dwan to direct the film. When Dwan informed the company of the situation, and that their jobs were on the line, they responded: "You're the best damn director we ever saw". Dwan operated Flying A Studios in La Mesa, California, from August 1911 to July 1912. Flying A was one of the first motion pictures studios in California history. On August 12, 2011, a plaque was unveiled on the Wolff building at Third Avenue and La Mesa Boulevard commemorating Dwan and the Flying A Studios origins in La Mesa, California. After making a series of westerns and comedies, Dwan directed fellow Canadian-American Mary Pickford in several very successful movies as well as her husband, Douglas Fairbanks, notably in the acclaimed 1922 Robin Hood. Dwan directed Gloria Swanson in eight feature films, and one short film made in the short-lived sound-on-film process Phonofilm. This short, also featuring Thomas Meighan and Henri de la Falaise, was produced as a joke, for the April 26, 1925 "Lambs' Gambol" for The Lambs, with the film showing Swanson crashing the all-male club. Following the introduction of the talkies, Dwan directed child-star Shirley Temple in Heidi (1937) and Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm (1938). Dwan helped launch the career of two other successful Hollywood directors, Victor Fleming, who went on to direct The Wizard of Oz and Gone With the Wind, and Marshall Neilan, who became an actor, director, writer and producer. Over a long career spanning almost 50 years, Dwan directed 125 motion pictures, some of which were highly acclaimed, such as the 1949 box office hit, Sands of Iwo Jima. He directed his last movie in 1961. Being one of the last surviving pioneers of the cinema, he was interviewed at length for the 1980 documentary series Hollywood. He died in Los Angeles at the age of 96, and is interred in the San Fernando Mission Cemetery, Mission Hills, California. Dwan has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6263 Hollywood Boulevard. Daniel Eagan of Film Journal International described Dwan as one of the early pioneers of cinema, stating that his style "is so basic as to seem invisible, but he treats his characters with uncommon sympathy and compassion." Partial filmography as director The Restless Spirit (1913) Back to Life (1913) Bloodhounds of the North (1913) The Lie (1914) The Honor of the Mounted (1914) The Unwelcome Mrs. Hatch (1914) Remember Mary Magdalen (1914) Discord and Harmony (1914) The Embezzler (1914) The Lamb, the Woman, the Wolf (1914) The End of the Feud (1914) The Test (1914) (*writer) The Tragedy of Whispering Creek (1914) The Unlawful Trade (1914) The Forbidden Room (1914) The Hopes of Blind Alley (1914) Richelieu (1914) Wildflower (1914) A Small Town Girl (1915) David Harum (1915) A Girl of Yesterday (1915) The Pretty Sister of Jose (1915) Jordan Is a Hard Road (1915) The Habit of Happiness (1916) The Good Bad Man (1916) An Innocent Magdalene (1916) The Half-Breed (1916) Manhattan Madness (1916) Accusing Evidence (1916) Panthea (1917) A Modern Musketeer (1917) Bound in Morocco (1918) Headin' South (1918) Mr. Fix-It (1918) He Comes Up Smiling (1918) Cheating Cheaters (1919) The Dark Star (1919) Getting Mary Married (1919) Soldiers of Fortune (1919) In The Heart of a Fool (1920) also producer The Forbidden Thing (1920) also producer A Splendid Hazard (1920) A Perfect Crime (1921) The Sin of Martha Queed (1921) A Broken Doll (1921) Robin Hood (1922) Zaza (1923) Big Brother (1923) Manhandled (1924) Argentine Love (1924) The Coast of Folly (1925) Night Life of New York (1925) Stage Struck (1925) Padlocked (1926) Sea Horses (1926) Summer Bachelors (1926) Tin Gods (1926) French Dressing (1927) The Joy Girl (1927) East Side, West Side (1927) The Big Noise (1928) Frozen Justice (1929) The Iron Mask (1929) Tide of Empire (1929) The Far Call (1929) What a Widow! (1930) Man to Man (1930) Wicked (1931) While Paris Sleeps (1932) Counsel's Opinion (1933) Black Sheep (1935) Navy Wife (1935) High Tension (1936) 15 Maiden Lane (1936) One Mile from Heaven (1937) Heidi (1937) Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm (1938) Suez (1938) Josette (1938) The Three Musketeers (1939) The Gorilla (1939) Frontier Marshal (1939) Sailor's Lady (1940) Young People (1940) Trail of the Vigilantes (1940) Look Who's Laughing (1941) also producer Rise and Shine (1941) Friendly Enemies (1942) Around the World (1943) also producer Up in Mabel's Room (1944) Abroad with Two Yanks (1944) Getting Gertie's Garter (1945) also screenwriter Brewster's Millions (1945) Rendezvous with Annie (1946) Driftwood (1947) Calendar Girl (1947) Northwest Outpost (1947) also associate producer The Inside Story (1948) Angel in Exile (1948) (with Philip Ford) Sands of Iwo Jima (1949) Surrender (1950) Belle Le Grand (1951) Wild Blue Yonder (1951) I Dream of Jeanie (1952) Montana Belle (1952) Woman They Almost Lynched (1953) Sweethearts on Parade (1953) Silver Lode (1954) Passion (1954) Cattle Queen of Montana (1954) Tennessee's Partner (1955) Pearl of the South Pacific (1955) Escape to Burma (1955) Slightly Scarlet (1956) Hold Back the Night (1956) The Restless Breed (1957) The River's Edge (1957) Enchanted Island (1958) Most Dangerous Man Alive (1961) See also Canadian pioneers in early Hollywood References Further reading Brownlow, Kevin, The Parade's Gone By... (1968) Bogdanovich, Peter, Allan Dwan: The Last Pioneer (1971) Foster, Charles, Stardust and Shadows: Canadians in Early Hollywood (2000) Lombardi, Frederic, Allan Dwan and the Rise and Decline of the Hollywood Studios (2013) Print E-book External links Allan Dwan profile, virtual-history.com; accessed June 16, 2014 1885 births 1981 deaths 20th-century American male writers 20th-century American screenwriters American film directors American film producers American male screenwriters Burials at San Fernando Mission Cemetery Canadian emigrants to the United States Film directors from Toronto Western (genre) film directors Screenwriters from Toronto
Agricultural science (or agriscience for short) is a broad multidisciplinary field of biology that encompasses the parts of exact, natural, economic and social sciences that are used in the practice and understanding of agriculture. Professionals of the agricultural science are called agricultural scientists or agriculturists. History In the 18th century, Johann Friedrich Mayer conducted experiments on the use of gypsum (hydrated calcium sulphate) as a fertilizer. In 1843, John Bennet Lawes and Joseph Henry Gilbert began a set of long-term field experiments at Rothamsted Research in England, some of which are still running as of 2018. In the United States, a scientific revolution in agriculture began with the Hatch Act of 1887, which used the term "agricultural science". The Hatch Act was driven by farmers' interest in knowing the constituents of early artificial fertilizer. The Smith–Hughes Act of 1917 shifted agricultural education back to its vocational roots, but the scientific foundation had been built. For the next 44 years after 1906, federal expenditures on agricultural research in the United States outpaced private expenditures. Prominent agricultural scientists Wilbur Olin Atwater Robert Bakewell Norman Borlaug Luther Burbank George Washington Carver Carl Henry Clerk George C. Clerk René Dumont Sir Albert Howard Kailas Nath Kaul Thomas Lecky Justus von Liebig Jay Laurence Lush Gregor Mendel Louis Pasteur M. S. Swaminathan Jethro Tull Artturi Ilmari Virtanen Sewall Wright Fields or related disciplines Scope Agriculture, agricultural science, and agronomy are often confused. However, they cover different concepts: Agriculture is the set of activities that transform the environment for the production of animals and plants for human use. Agriculture concerns techniques, including the application of agronomic research. Agronomy is research and development related to studying and improving plant-based crops. Soil forming factors and soil degradation Agricultural sciences include research and development on: Improving agricultural productivity in terms of quantity and quality (e.g., selection of drought-resistant crops and animals, development of new pesticides, yield-sensing technologies, simulation models of crop growth, in-vitro cell culture techniques) Minimizing the effects of pests (weeds, insects, pathogens, mollusks, nematodes) on crop or animal production systems. Transformation of primary products into end-consumer products (e.g., production, preservation, and packaging of dairy products) Prevention and correction of adverse environmental effects (e.g., soil degradation, waste management, bioremediation) Theoretical production ecology, relating to crop production modeling Traditional agricultural systems, sometimes termed subsistence agriculture, which feed most of the poorest people in the world. These systems are of interest as they sometimes retain a level of integration with natural ecological systems greater than that of industrial agriculture, which may be more sustainable than some modern agricultural systems. Food production and demand on a global basis, with special attention paid to the major producers, such as China, India, Brazil, the US and the EU. Various sciences relating to agricultural resources and the environment (e.g. soil science, agroclimatology); biology of agricultural crops and animals (e.g. crop science, animal science and their included sciences, e.g. ruminant nutrition, farm animal welfare); such fields as agricultural economics and rural sociology; various disciplines encompassed in agricultural engineering. See also Agricultural Research Council Agricultural sciences basic topics Agriculture ministry Agroecology American Society of Agronomy Genomics of domestication History of agricultural science Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences International Assessment of Agricultural Science and Technology for Development International Food Policy Research Institute, IFPRI List of agriculture topics National FFA Organization Research Institute of Crop Production (RICP) (in the Czech Republic) University of Agricultural Sciences References Further reading Agricultural Research, Livelihoods, and Poverty: Studies of Economic and Social Impacts in Six Countries Edited by Michelle Adato and Ruth Meinzen-Dick (2007), Johns Hopkins University Press Food Policy Report Claude Bourguignon, Regenerating the Soil: From Agronomy to Agrology, Other India Press, 2005 Pimentel David, Pimentel Marcia, Computer les kilocalories, Cérès, n. 59, sept-oct. 1977 Russell E. Walter, Soil conditions and plant growth, Longman group, London, New York 1973 Saltini Antonio, Storia delle scienze agrarie, 4 vols, Bologna 1984–89, , , , Vavilov Nicolai I. (Starr Chester K. editor), The Origin, Variation, Immunity and Breeding of Cultivated Plants. Selected Writings, in Chronica botanica, 13: 1–6, Waltham, Mass., 1949–50 Vavilov Nicolai I., World Resources of Cereals, Leguminous Seed Crops and Flax, Academy of Sciences of Urss, National Science Foundation, Washington, Israel Program for Scientific Translations, Jerusalem 1960 Winogradsky Serge, Microbiologie du sol. Problèmes et methodes. Cinquante ans de recherches, Masson & c.ie, Paris 1949 External links Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) Agricultural Research Service Indian Council of Agricultural Research International Institute of Tropical Agriculture International Livestock Research Institute The National Agricultural Library (NAL) - The most comprehensive agricultural library in the world. Crop Science Society of America American Society of Agronomy Soil Science Society of America Agricultural Science Researchers, Jobs and Discussions Information System for Agriculture and Food Research NMSU Department of Entomology Plant Pathology and Weed Science
Alien primarily refers to: Alien (law), a person in a country who is not a national of that country Enemy alien, the above in times of war Extraterrestrial life, life which does not originate from Earth Specifically, a lifeform with extraterrestrial intelligence For fictional extraterrestrial life, see Extraterrestrials in fiction Introduced species, a species not native to its environment Alien(s), or The Alien(s) may also refer to: Science and technology AliEn (ALICE Environment), a grid framework Alien (file converter), a Linux program Alien Technology, a manufacturer of RFID technology Arts and entertainment Alien (franchise), a media franchise Xenomorph, the titular alien in the franchise Films Alien (film), a 1979 film by Ridley Scott Aliens (film), second film in the franchise from 1986 by James Cameron Alien 3, third film in the franchise from 1992 by David Fincher Alien Resurrection, fourth film in the franchise from 1997 by Jean-Pierre Jeunet Alien vs. Predator (film), fifth film in the franchise from 2004 by Paul W. S. Anderson Aliens vs. Predator: Requiem, sixth film in the franchise from 2007 by the Brothers Strause Prometheus (2012 film), seventh film in the franchise from 2012 by Ridley Scott Alien: Covenant, eighth film in the franchise from 2017 by Ridley Scott Alien 2: On Earth, a 1980 unofficial sequel of the 1979 Alien film Alien Visitor (also titled Epsilon) (1995 film) AustralianItalian science fiction film by Rolf de Heer The Alien (2016 film), a 2016 Mexican film The Alien (unproduced film), an incomplete 1960s IndianAmerican film Alienoid, a 2022 South Korean film Literature Alien novels, an extension of the Alien franchise Aliens: Colonial Marines Technical Manual, a 1995 book by Lee Brimmicombe-Wood, a guide to the fictional United States Colonial Marines Aliens (Tappan Wright novel), a 1902 novel by Mary Tappan Wright Aliens! (anthology) a 1980 anthology of science fiction edited by Gardner Dozois and Jack Dann The Alien (novel), the eighth book in the Animorphs series by Katherine Applegate The Aliens (play), a 2010 play by Annie Baker Music Performers Alien (band), a 1980s Swedish rock group The Aliens (Australian band), a 1970s new wave group The Aliens (Scottish band), a 2005–2008 rock group The Aliens, the backing band for the American musician Jared Louche on his 1999 solo debut album Covergirl Albums Alien (soundtrack), 1979 Alien (Beam album), 2022 Alien (Northlane album), 2019 Alien (Strapping Young Lad album), 2005 Alien, a 1989 EP by Tankard Aliens (soundtrack), 1987 Songs "Alien" (Britney Spears song), 2013 "Alien" (Jonas Blue and Sabrina Carpenter song), 2018 "Alien", a song by Atlanta Rhythm from the album Quinella, 1981 "Alien", a song by Bush from the album Sixteen Stone, 1994 "Alien", a song by Erasure from the album Loveboat, 2000 "Alien", a song by Japan from the album Quiet Life, 1979 "Alien", a song by Lamb from the album Fear of Fours, 1999 "Alien", a song by Nerina Pallot from the album Dear Frustrated Superstar, 2001 "Alien", a song by P-Model from the album Landsale, 1980 "Alien", a song by Pennywise from the album Straight Ahead, 1999 "Alien", a song by Stray Kids from the album SKZ-Replay, 2022 "Alien", a song by Structures from the album Life Through a Window, 2014 "Alien", a song by the National from the album First Two Pages of Frankenstein, 2023 "Alien", a song by Third Day from the album Conspiracy No. 5, 1997 "Alien", a song by Thriving Ivory from the album Thriving Ivory, 2003 "Alien", a song by Tokio Hotel from the album Humanoid, 2009 "Alien", a 2020 song by Lee Su-hyun "Alien", a 2020 song by Dennis Lloyd "Aliens" (song), a 2017 song by Coldplay "Aliens", a 1984 song by Warlord "The Alien", a song by Dream Theater from the album A View from the Top of the World, 2021 Video games Alien (1984 video game), based on the film Alien (Atari 2600), a 1982 maze game based on the 1979 film Alien: Isolation, a 2014 video game based on the Alien science fiction horror film series Aliens (1982 video game), a text-only clone of Space Invaders written for the CP/M operating system on the Kaypro computer Aliens (1990 video game), a game by Konami, based on the sequel of the film Other media Alien (Armenian TV series), a 2017 melodrama series Alien (sculpture), a 2012 work by David Breuer-Weil, in Mottisfont, Hampshire, England Aliens (Dark Horse Comics line) The Aliens (TV series), 2016 British sci-fi television series "Aliens" (Roseanne), a 1992 television episode Other uses Alien (shipping company), a Russian company Alien Sun (born 1974), Singaporean actress Alien, a perfume by Thierry Mugler Alian District (Alien), in Taiwan See also Alians, an Islamic order Alien Project (disambiguation) Alien vs. Predator (disambiguation) Astrobiology, the study of hypothetical alien life ATLiens, a 1996 album by OutKast Predator (disambiguation) UFO (disambiguation) Unidentified flying object (disambiguation)
An astronomer is a scientist in the field of astronomy who focuses their studies on a specific question or field outside the scope of Earth. They observe astronomical objects such as stars, planets, moons, comets and galaxies – in either observational (by analyzing the data) or theoretical astronomy. Examples of topics or fields astronomers study include planetary science, solar astronomy, the origin or evolution of stars, or the formation of galaxies. A related but distinct subject is physical cosmology, which studies the Universe as a whole. Types Astronomers usually fall under either of two main types: observational and theoretical. Observational astronomers make direct observations of celestial objects and analyze the data. In contrast, theoretical astronomers create and investigate models of things that cannot be observed. Because it takes millions to billions of years for a system of stars or a galaxy to complete a life cycle, astronomers must observe snapshots of different systems at unique points in their evolution to determine how they form, evolve, and die. They use this data to create models or simulations to theorize how different celestial objects work. Further subcategories under these two main branches of astronomy include planetary astronomy, galactic astronomy, or physical cosmology. Academic Historically, astronomy was more concerned with the classification and description of phenomena in the sky, while astrophysics attempted to explain these phenomena and the differences between them using physical laws. Today, that distinction has mostly disappeared and the terms "astronomer" and "astrophysicist" are interchangeable. Professional astronomers are highly educated individuals who typically have a PhD in physics or astronomy and are employed by research institutions or universities. They spend the majority of their time working on research, although they quite often have other duties such as teaching, building instruments, or aiding in the operation of an observatory. The American Astronomical Society, which is the major organization of professional astronomers in North America, has approximately 7,000 members. This number includes scientists from other fields such as physics, geology, and engineering, whose research interests are closely related to astronomy. The International Astronomical Union comprises almost 10,145 members from 70 countries who are involved in astronomical research at the PhD level and beyond. Contrary to the classical image of an old astronomer peering through a telescope through the dark hours of the night, it is far more common to use a charge-coupled device (CCD) camera to record a long, deep exposure, allowing a more sensitive image to be created because the light is added over time. Before CCDs, photographic plates were a common method of observation. Modern astronomers spend relatively little time at telescopes usually just a few weeks per year. Analysis of observed phenomena, along with making predictions as to the causes of what they observe, takes the majority of observational astronomers' time. Astronomers who serve as faculty spend much of their time teaching undergraduate and graduate classes. Most universities also have outreach programs including public telescope time and sometimes planetariums as a public service to encourage interest in the field. Those who become astronomers usually have a broad background in maths, sciences and computing in high school. Taking courses that teach how to research, write, and present papers are also invaluable. In college/university most astronomers get a PhD in astronomy or physics. Amateur astronomers While there is a relatively low number of professional astronomers, the field is popular among amateurs. Most cities have amateur astronomy clubs that meet on a regular basis and often host star parties. The Astronomical Society of the Pacific is the largest general astronomical society in the world, comprising both professional and amateur astronomers as well as educators from 70 different nations. Like any hobby, most people who think of themselves as amateur astronomers may devote a few hours a month to stargazing and reading the latest developments in research. However, amateurs span the range from so-called "armchair astronomers" to the very ambitious, who own science-grade telescopes and instruments with which they are able to make their own discoveries and assist professional astronomers in research. See also List of astronomers List of women astronomers List of Muslim astronomers List of French astronomers List of Hungarian astronomers List of Russian astronomers and astrophysicists List of Slovenian astronomers References Sources External links American Astronomical Society European Astronomical Society International Astronomical Union Astronomical Society of the Pacific Space's astronomy news Astronomy Science occupations
Austin is the capital of Texas in the United States. Austin may also refer to: Geographical locations Australia Austin, Western Australia Canada Austin, Manitoba Austin, Ontario Austin, Quebec Austin Island, Nunavut France Saint-Austin, hamlet at la Neuville-Chant-d'Oisel, Normandy United States Austin, Arkansas Austin, Colorado Austin Township, Macon County, Illinois Austin, Chicago, Cook County, Illinois Austin, Indiana Austin, Kentucky Austin, Minnesota Austin, Missouri Austin, Nevada Austin, Ohio Austin, Oregon Austin, Pennsylvania Austin, Texas Austin County, Texas (the city of Austin, Texas is located in Travis County) Schools Austin College, Sherman, Texas University of Texas at Austin, flagship institution of the University of Texas System Austin Peay State University, Clarksville, Tennessee Religion Augustine of Hippo An adjective for the Augustinians Business American Austin Car Company, short-lived American automobile maker Austin Automobile Company, short-lived American automobile company Austin Motor Company, British car manufacturer Austin magazine, produced for the Austin Motor Company by in-house Nuffield Press Austin cookies and crackers, Keebler Company brand Entertainment "Austin" (song), a single by Blake Shelton Austin (album), a 2023 studio album by Post Malone Austin, a kangaroo Beanie Baby produced by Ty, Inc. Austin the kangaroo from the children's television series The Backyardigans Other uses Austin (building), a building designed by artist Ellsworth Kelly in Austin, Texas Austin (given name), a short form of Augustin, or Augustine, including fictional characters Austin (surname) USS Austin, three ships See also All pages beginning with Austin August (disambiguation) Augustin (disambiguation) Augustine (disambiguation) Austin station (disambiguation) Austins (disambiguation) Austen (disambiguation) Justice Austin (disambiguation) Austinburg (disambiguation)
Ada may refer to: Places Africa Ada Foah, a town in Ghana Ada (Ghana parliament constituency) Ada, Osun, a town in Nigeria Asia Ada, Urmia, a village in West Azerbaijan Province, Iran Ada, Karaman, a village in Karaman Province, Turkey Europe Ada, Bosnia and Herzegovina, a village Ada, Croatia, a village Ada, Serbia, a town and municipality Ada Ciganlija or Ada, a river island artificially turned into a peninsula in Belgrade, Serbia United States Ada, Alabama, an unincorporated community Ada County, Idaho Ada, Kansas, an unincorporated community Ada Township, Michigan Ada, Minnesota, a city Ada Township, Dickey County, North Dakota Ada, Ohio, a village Ada, Oklahoma, a city Ada, Oregon, an unincorporated community Ada Township, Perkins County, South Dakota Ada, West Virginia, an unincorporated community Ada, Wisconsin, an unincorporated community Other Ada River (disambiguation), various rivers 523 Ada, an asteroid Film and television Ada TV, a television channel in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus Ada (1961 film), a 1961 film by Daniel Mann Ada (2019 film), a short biopic about Ada Lovelace Ada... A Way of Life, a 2008 Bollywood musical by Tanvir Ahmed Ada (dog actor), a dog that played Colin on the sitcom Spaced Ada, one of the main characters in 1991 movie Armour of God II: Operation Condor Biology Ada (plant), a genus of orchids Adenosine deaminase, an enzyme involved in purine metabolism Ada (protein), an enzyme induced by treatment of bacterial cells Computer science Ada (programming language), programming language based on Pascal Ada (computer virus) Air travel Ada Air, a regional airline based in Tirana, Albania Francisco C. Ada Airport, Saipan Island, Northern Mariana Islands Schools Ada, the National College for Digital Skills, a further education college in Tottenham Hale, London Ada High School (Ohio) Ada Independent School District, Oklahoma People Ada (name), a feminine given name and a surname, including a list of people and fictional characters Ada Lovelace (1815–1852), computer scientist sometimes regarded as the first computer programmer Ada of Caria (fl. 377 – 326 BCE), satrap of ancient Caria and adoptive mother of Alexander the Great Other uses List of tropical storms named Ada Ada (food), a traditional Kerala delicacy Ada, the cryptocurrency of the Cardano blockchain platform Ada Bridge, Belgrade, Serbia , a cargo vessel built for the London and South Western Railway Ada (ship), a wooden ketch, wrecked near Newcastle, New South Wales, Australia Ada class, a class of anti-submarine corvettes developed by Turkey Ada or Ardor: A Family Chronicle, novel by Vladimir Nabokov Dangme language, spoken in Ghana (ISO 639-2 and 639-3 code "ada") Ada Health GmbH, a symptom checker app See also ADA (disambiguation) Ada regulon, an Escherichia coli adaptive response protein Adah (disambiguation) Adha (disambiguation) Ada'a, a woreda in the Oromia Region of Ethiopia Ade (disambiguation) USS Little Ada (1864), a steamer captured by the Union Navy during the American Civil War
Aberdeen is a city in Scotland. Aberdeen may also refer to: Places Africa Aberdeen, Sierra Leone Aberdeen, Eastern Cape, South Africa Asia Hong Kong Aberdeen, Hong Kong, an area and town on southwest Hong Kong Island Aberdeen Channel, a channel between Ap Lei Chau (Aberdeen Island) and Nam Long Shan on the Hong Kong Island in Hong Kong Aberdeen Country Park, a country park in Hong Kong Island Aberdeen floating village, at Aberdeen Harbour, containing approximately 600 junks, which house an estimated 6,000 people Aberdeen Harbour, a harbour between Aberdeen, Hong Kong and Ap Lei Chau (Aberdeen Island) Aberdeen Tunnel, a tunnel in Hong Kong Island Aberdeen Tunnel Underground Laboratory, an underground particle physics laboratory in Hong Kong Island Ap Lei Chau or Aberdeen Island, an island of Hong Kong Aberdeen (Hong Kong constituency), a constituency of Southern District Council India Aberdeen Bazaar, a shopping centre in Port Blair, South Andaman Island Sri Lanka Aberdeen Falls, a waterfall in Sri Lanka Australia Aberdeen, New South Wales Aberdeen, South Australia, one of the early townships that merged in 1940 to create the town of Burra Aberdeen, Tasmania, a suburb of the City of Devonport Caribbean Aberdeen, Jamaica, a town in Saint Elizabeth, Jamaica Europe Aberdeen (Parliament of Scotland constituency) Aberdeen (UK Parliament constituency) 1832-1885 Aberdeen Burghs (UK Parliament constituency) 1801-1832 Aberdeen Central (Scottish Parliament constituency) Aberdeen Central (UK Parliament constituency) Aberdeen Donside (Scottish Parliament constituency) County of Aberdeen, a historic county of Scotland whose county town was Aberdeen Old Aberdeen, a part of the city of Aberdeen in Scotland North America Canada Aberdeen, community in the township of Champlain, Prescott and Russell County, Ontario Aberdeen, Abbotsford, a neighbourhood in the City of Abbotsford, British Columbia Aberdeen Centre, a shopping mall in Richmond, British Columbia Aberdeen, Grey County, Ontario Aberdeen, Kamloops, an area in the City of Kamloops, British Columbia Aberdeen Lake (Nunavut), a lake in Kivalliq Region, Nunavut, Canada Aberdeen, Nova Scotia, part of the Municipality of Inverness County, Nova Scotia Aberdeen Parish, New Brunswick Rural Municipality of Aberdeen No. 373, Saskatchewan Aberdeen, Saskatchewan Aberdeen Bay, a bay between southern Baffin Island and north-eastern Hector Island in the Nunavut territory Aberdeen Township, Quebec, until 1960 part of Sheen-Esher-Aberdeen-et-Malakoff, now part of Rapides-des-Joachims, Quebec Aberdeen River, a tributary of rivière aux Castors Noirs in Mauricie, Québec New Aberdeen, Nova Scotia United States Aberdeen, Arkansas Aberdeen, Colorado Aberdeen, Florida Aberdeen, Georgia Aberdeen, Idaho Aberdeen, Ohio County, Indiana Aberdeen, Porter County, Indiana Aberdeen, Kentucky Aberdeen, Maryland Aberdeen Proving Ground, a United States Army facility located near Aberdeen, Maryland Aberdeen, Massachusetts, a neighborhood of Brighton, Boston Aberdeen, Mississippi Aberdeen Lake (Mississippi), a lake in northeast Mississippi on the Tennessee-Tombigbee Waterway, close to Aberdeen, Mississippi Aberdeen Township, New Jersey Aberdeen, North Carolina Aberdeen Historic District (Aberdeen, North Carolina) Aberdeen, Ohio Aberdeen, South Dakota Aberdeen Historic District (Aberdeen, South Dakota) Aberdeen, Texas Aberdeen (Disputanta, Virginia) Aberdeen Gardens (Hampton, Virginia) Aberdeen, Washington Aberdeen Gardens, Washington Aberdeen, West Virginia See Also New Aberdeen (disambiguation) Aberdeen City Council, the local authority body in the city Arts and entertainment Aberdeen (2000 film), a 2000 Norwegian-British film Aberdeen (2014 film), a 2014 Hong Kong film Aberdeen (band), an American rock band Aberdeen (song), by Cage The Elephant Businesses and organisations Companies Abrdn, formerly Standard Life Aberdeen Aberdeen Asset Management Education Aberdeen Business School, Robert Gordon University, Aberdeen, Scotland Aberdeen College, Aberdeen, Scotland Aberdeen Grammar School, Aberdeen, Scotland Aberdeen Hall, a university-preparatory school in Kelowna, British Columbia, Canada Aberdeen High School (disambiguation) University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, Scotland Sports Aberdeen F.C., a Scottish professional football team Aberdeen F.C. Women Aberdeen GSFP RFC, an amateur rugby union club in Aberdeen, Scotland Aberdeen IronBirds, a Minor League Baseball team in Aberdeen, Maryland, U.S. Aberdeen L.F.C., a women's football team affiliated with Aberdeen F.C. Transportation Aberdeen Airport (disambiguation) Aberdeen station (disambiguation) Aberdeen Line, a British shipping company founded in 1825 Aberdeen (ship), the name of several ships See also Aberdeen Act Aberdeen Angus, a Scottish breed of small beef cattle Aberdeen Central (disambiguation) Aberdeen Gardens (disambiguation) Aberdeen Historic District (disambiguation) Aberdeen Hospital (disambiguation) Aberdeen Quarry, a granite quarry in Colorado Battle of Aberdeen (disambiguation) Diocese of Aberdeen and Orkney, one of the seven dioceses of the Scottish Episcopal Church Etymology of Aberdeen Marquess of Aberdeen and Temair, a title in the Peerage of the United Kingdom
In law, an answer was originally a solemn assertion in opposition to someone or something, and thus generally any counter-statement or defense, a reply to a question or response, or objection, or a correct solution of a problem. In the common law, an answer is the first pleading by a defendant, usually filed and served upon the plaintiff within a certain strict time limit after a civil complaint or criminal information or indictment has been served upon the defendant. It may have been preceded by an optional "pre-answer" motion to dismiss or demurrer; if such a motion is unsuccessful, the defendant must file an answer to the complaint or risk an adverse default judgment. In a criminal case, there is usually an arraignment or some other kind of appearance before the defendant comes to court. The pleading in the criminal case, which is entered on the record in open court, is usually either guilty or not guilty. Generally speaking in private, civil cases there is no plea entered of guilt or innocence. There is only a judgment that grants money damages or some other kind of equitable remedy such as restitution or a permanent injunction. Criminal cases may lead to fines or other punishment, such as imprisonment. The famous Latin Responsa Prudentium ("answers of the learned ones") were the accumulated views of many successive generations of Roman lawyers, a body of legal opinion which gradually became authoritative. During debates of a contentious nature, deflection, colloquially known as 'changing the topic', has been widely observed, and is often seen as a failure to answer a question. Notes Common law Legal documents
Arraignment is a formal reading of a criminal charging document in the presence of the defendant, to inform them of the charges against them. In response to arraignment, in some jurisdictions, the accused is expected to enter a plea; in other jurisdictions, no plea is required. Acceptable pleas vary among jurisdictions, but they generally include guilty, not guilty, and the peremptory pleas, or pleas in bar, setting out reasons why a trial cannot proceed. Pleas of nolo contendere ('no contest') and the Alford plea are allowed in some circumstances. By country Australia In Australia, arraignment is the first of 11 stages in a criminal trial, and involves the clerk of the court reading out the indictment. The judge will testify during the indictment process. Canada In British Columbia, arraignment takes place in one of the first few court appearances by the defendant or their lawyer. The defendant is asked whether they plead guilty or not guilty to each charge. France In France, the general rule is that one cannot remain in police custody for more than 24 hours from the time of the arrest. However, police custody can last another 24 hours in specific circumstances, especially if the offence is punishable by at least one year's imprisonment, or if the investigation is deemed to require the extra time, and can last up to 96 hours in certain cases involving terrorism, drug trafficking or organised crime. The police need to have the consent of the prosecutor, the procureur. In the vast majority of cases, the prosecutor will consent. Germany In Germany, if one has been arrested and taken into custody by the police, one must be brought before a judge as soon as possible and at the latest on the day after the arrest. New Zealand In New Zealand law, at the first appearance of the accused, they are read the charges and asked for a plea. The available pleas are: guilty, not guilty, and no plea. The response of "no plea" allows the defendant to get legal advice on the plea, which must be made on the second appearance. South Africa In South Africa, arraignment is defined as the calling upon the accused to appear, the informing of the accused of the crime charged against them, the demanding of the accused whether they plead guilty or not guilty, and the entering of their plea. United Kingdom In England, Wales, and Northern Ireland, arraignment is the first of 11 stages in a criminal trial, and involves the clerk of the court reading out the indictment. In England and Wales, the police cannot legally detain anyone for more than 24 hours without charging them unless an officer with the rank of superintendent (or above) authorises detention for a further 12 hours (i.e. 36 hours total), or a judge (who will be a magistrate) authorises detention by the police before charge for up to a maximum of 96 hours; for terrorism-related offences a person can be held by the police for up to 28 days before charge. If they are not released after being charged, they should be brought before a court as soon as practicable. In Scotland, the police cannot detain anyone for more than 12 hours without charging them unless an officer of the rank of superintendent (or above) authorises detention for a further 12 hours (i.e. up to 24 hours in total); for terrorism-related offences a person can be held by the police for up to 14 days before charge. If they are not released after being charged, they should be brought before a court as soon as practicable. United States The Sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution grants criminal defendants the right to be notified of the charges against them. Under the United States' Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, arraignment shall consist of an open reading of the indictment (and delivery of a copy) to the defendant and a call for them to plead. In federal courts, arraignment takes place in two stages. The first is called the "initial arraignment" and must take place within 48 hours of an individual's arrest, within 72 hours if the individual was arrested on the weekend and not able to go before a judge until Monday. During this stage, the defendant is informed of the pending legal charges and is informed of his or her right to retain counsel. The presiding judge also decides at what amount, if any, to set bail. During the second stage, the post-indictment arraignment, the defendant is allowed to enter a plea. In New York, a person arrested without a warrant and kept in custody must be brought before a local criminal court for arraignment "without unnecessary delay". A delay of more than 24 hours is rebuttably presumed to be unnecessary. In California, arraignments must be conducted without unnecessary delay and, in any event, within 48 hours of arrest, excluding weekends and holidays. Form of the arraignment The wording of the arraignment varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. However, it generally conforms with the following principles: The accused person (defendant) is addressed by name; The charge against the accused person is read, including the alleged date, time, and place of offense (and sometimes the names of the state's witnesses and the range of punishment for the charge(s)); and, The accused person is asked formally how they plead. Video arraignment Video arraignment is the act of conducting the arraignment process using some form of videoconferencing technology. Use of video arraignment system allows the court to conduct the requisite arraignment process without the need to transport the defendant to the courtroom by using an audio-visual link between the location where the defendant is being held and the courtroom. Use of the video arraignment process addresses the problems associated with having to transport defendants. The transportation of defendants requires time, puts additional demands on the public safety organizations to provide for the safety of the public, court personnel and for the security of the population held in detention. It also addresses the rising costs of transportation. Guilty and not-guilty pleas If the defendant pleads guilty, an evidentiary hearing usually follows. The court is not required to accept a guilty plea. During the hearing, the judge assesses the offense, the mitigating factors, and the defendant's character, and passes sentence. If the defendant pleads not guilty, a date is set for a preliminary hearing or a trial. In the past, a defendant who refused to plead (or "stood mute") was subject to peine forte et dure (Law French for "strong and hard punishment"). Today, in common law jurisdictions, the court enters a plea of not guilty for a defendant who refuses to enter a plea. The rationale for this is the defendant's right to silence. Pre-trial release This is also often the stage at which arguments for or against pre-trial release and bail may be made, depending on the alleged crime and jurisdiction. See also Desk appearance ticket References Legal terminology Prosecution United States criminal procedure Criminal law of the United Kingdom Australian criminal law
In logic and philosophy, an argument is an attempt to persuade someone of something, or give evidence or reasons for accepting a particular conclusion. Argument may also refer to: Mathematics and computer science Argument (complex analysis), a function which returns the polar angle of a complex number Command-line argument, an item of information provided to a program when it is started Parameter (computer programming), a piece of data provided as input to a subroutine Argument principle, a theorem in complex analysis An argument of a function, also known as an independent variable Language and rhetoric Argument (literature), a brief summary, often in prose, of a poem or section of a poem or other work Argument (linguistics), a phrase that appears in a syntactic relationship with the verb in a clause Oral argument in the United States, a spoken presentation to a judge or appellate court by a lawyer (or parties when representing themselves) of the legal reasons why they should prevail Closing argument, in law, the concluding statement of each party's counsel reiterating the important arguments in a court case Other uses Musical argument, a concept in the theory of musical form Argument (ship), an Australian sloop wrecked in 1809 Das Argument, a German academic journal Argument Clinic, a Monty Python sketch A disagreement between two or more parties or the discussion of the disagreement Argument (horse) See also The Argument (disambiguation) argumentation
In propositional logic, affirming the consequent, sometimes called converse error, fallacy of the converse, or confusion of necessity and sufficiency, is a formal fallacy of taking a true conditional statement (e.g., "if the lamp were broken, then the room would be dark") under certain assumptions (there are no other lights in the room, it is nighttime and the windows are closed), and invalidly inferring its converse ("the room is dark, so the lamp must be broken"), even though that statement may not be true under the same assumptions. This arises when the consequent ("the room would be dark") has other possible antecedents (for example, "the lamp is in working order, but is switched off" or "there is no lamp in the room"). Converse errors are common in everyday thinking and communication and can result from, among other causes, communication issues, misconceptions about logic, and failure to consider other causes. The opposite statement, denying the consequent, is called modus tollens and is a valid form of argument. Formal description Affirming the consequent is the action of taking a true statement and invalidly concluding its converse . The name affirming the consequent derives from using the consequent, Q, of , to conclude the antecedent P. This fallacy can be summarized formally as or, alternatively, . The root cause of such a logical error is sometimes failure to realize that just because P is a possible condition for Q, P may not be the only condition for Q, i.e. Q may follow from another condition as well. Affirming the consequent can also result from overgeneralizing the experience of many statements having true converses. If P and Q are "equivalent" statements, i.e. , it is possible to infer P under the condition Q. For example, the statements "It is August 13, so it is my birthday" and "It is my birthday, so it is August 13" are equivalent and both true consequences of the statement "August 13 is my birthday" (an abbreviated form of ). Of the possible forms of "mixed hypothetical syllogisms," two are valid and two are invalid. Affirming the antecedent (modus ponens) and denying the consequent (modus tollens) are valid. Affirming the consequent and denying the antecedent are invalid. Additional examples Example 1 One way to demonstrate the invalidity of this argument form is with a counterexample with true premises but an obviously false conclusion. For example: If someone lives in San Diego, then they live in California. Joe lives in California. Therefore, Joe lives in San Diego. There are many places to live in California other than San Diego; however, one can affirm with certainty that "if someone does not live in California" (non-Q), then "this person does not live in San Diego" (non-P). This is the contrapositive of the first statement, and it must be true if and only if the original statement is true. Example 2 Here is another useful, obviously fallacious example. If an animal is a dog, then it has four legs. My cat has four legs. Therefore, my cat is a dog. Here, it is immediately intuitive that any number of other antecedents ("If an animal is a deer...", "If an animal is an elephant...", "If an animal is a moose...", etc.) can give rise to the consequent ("then it has four legs"), and that it is preposterous to suppose that having four legs must imply that the animal is a dog and nothing else. This is useful as a teaching example since most people can immediately recognize that the conclusion reached must be wrong (intuitively, a cat cannot be a dog), and that the method by which it was reached must therefore be fallacious. Example 3 Arguments of the same form can sometimes seem superficially convincing, as in the following example: If Brian had been thrown off the top of the Eiffel Tower, then he would be dead. Brian is dead. Therefore, Brian was thrown off the top of the Eiffel Tower. Being thrown off the top of the Eiffel Tower is not the only cause of death, since there exist numerous different causes of death. Example 4 In Catch-22, the chaplain is interrogated for supposedly being "Washington Irving"/"Irving Washington", who has been blocking out large portions of soldiers' letters home. The colonel has found such a letter, but with the Chaplain's name signed. "You can read, though, can't you?" the colonel persevered sarcastically. "The author signed his name." "That's my name there." "Then you wrote it. Q.E.D." P in this case is 'The chaplain signs his own name', and Q 'The chaplain's name is written'. The chaplain's name may be written, but he did not necessarily write it, as the colonel falsely concludes.Example 5 When teaching the scientific method, the following example is used to illustrate why, via the fallacy of affirming the consequent, no scientific theory is ever proven true but rather simply failed to be falsified. If this theory is correct, we will observe X. We observe X. Therefore, this theory is correct. Concluding or assuming that a theory is true because of a prediction it makes being observed is invalid. This is one of the challenges of applying the scientific method though rarely is it brought up in academic contexts as it is unlikely to be of consequence to the results of the study. Much more common is questioning the validity of the theory, the validity of expecting the theory to have predicted the observation, and/or the validity of the observation itself. See also Abductive reasoning Appeal to consequences Confusion of the inverse Denying the antecedent Fallacy of the single cause Fallacy of the undistributed middle Modus ponens Modus tollens Necessity and sufficiency Post hoc ergo propter hoc'' References Logic articles needing expert attention Formal fallacies
Abel is a Biblical figure in the Book of Genesis within Abrahamic religions. He was the younger brother of Cain, and the younger son of Adam and Eve, the first couple in Biblical history. He was a shepherd who offered his firstborn flock up to God as an offering. God accepted his offering but not his brother's. Cain then killed Abel out of jealousy. According to Genesis, this was the first murder in the history of mankind. Life and death Interpretations Jewish and Christian interpretations According to the narrative in Genesis, Abel ( Hébel, in pausa Hā́ḇel; Hábel; , Hābēl) is Eve's second son. His name in Hebrew is composed of the same three consonants as a root meaning "breath". Julius Wellhausen has proposed that the name is independent of the root. Eberhard Schrader had previously put forward the Akkadian (Old Assyrian dialect) ablu ("son") as a more likely etymology. In Christianity, comparisons are sometimes made between the death of Abel and that of Jesus, the former thus seen as being the first martyr. In Jesus speaks of Abel as "righteous", and the Epistle to the Hebrews states that "The blood of sprinkling ... [speaks] better things than that of Abel" (). The blood of Jesus is interpreted as bringing mercy; but that of Abel as demanding vengeance (hence the curse and mark). Abel is invoked in the litany for the dying in the Roman Catholic Church, and his sacrifice is mentioned in the Canon of the Mass along with those of Abraham and Melchizedek. The Alexandrian Rite commemorates him with a feast day on December 28. According to the Coptic Book of Adam and Eve (at 2:1–15), and the Syriac Cave of Treasures, Abel's body, after many days of mourning, was placed in the Cave of Treasures, before which Adam and Eve, and descendants, offered their prayers. In addition, the Sethite line of the Generations of Adam swear by Abel's blood to segregate themselves from the unrighteous. In the Book of Enoch (22:7), regarded by most Christian and Jewish traditions as extra-biblical, the soul of Abel is described as having been appointed as the chief of martyrs, crying for vengeance, for the destruction of the seed of Cain. A similar view is later shown in the Testament of Abraham (A:13 / B:11), where Abel has been raised to the position as the judge of the souls. In Bereshit Rabbah (22:2), a discussion of Gen. 4:1 ff. has Rabbi Yehoshua ben Korcha mentioning that Cain was born with a twin sister, and Abel with two twin sisters. This is based on the principle that the otherwise superfluous accusative article "et" always conveys some additional teaching (Pesachim 22b). The "et"'s are parsed slightly differently in Yebamot 62a where the two "et"'s in Gen. 4:2 indicate Cain and his sister, and Abel and his (one) sister. Sethian Gnostic interpretation In the Apocryphon of John, a work belonging to Sethian Gnosticism, Abel is the offspring of Yaldaboath and Eve, who is placed over the elements of water and earth as Elohim, but was only given his name as a form of deception. Mandaean interpretation According to Mandaean beliefs and scriptures including the Qolastā, the Book of John and Genzā Rabbā, Abel is cognate with the angelic soteriological figure Hibil Ziwa, (, sometimes translated "Splendid Hibel"), who is spoken of as a son of Hayyi or of Manda d-Hayyi, and as a brother to Anush (Enosh) and to Sheetil (Seth), who is the son of Adam. Elsewhere, Anush is spoken of as the son of Sheetil, and Sheetil as the son of Hibil, where Hibil came to Adam and Eve as a young boy when they were still virgins, but was called their son. Hibil is an important lightworld being (uthra) who conquered the World of Darkness. As Yawar Hibil, he is one of multiple figures known as Yawar (), being so named by and after his father. Islamic interpretation According to Shi'a Muslim belief, Abel ("Habeel") is buried in the Nabi Habeel Mosque, located on the west mountains of Damascus, near the Zabadani Valley, overlooking the villages of the Barada river (Wadi Barada), in Syria. Shi'a are frequent visitors of this mosque for ziyarat. The mosque was built by Ottoman Wali Ahmad Pasha in 1599. In modern media Abel is portrayed by Franco Nero in the film The Bible: In the Beginning... (1966). Paul Rudd played the role of Abel in the 2009 film Year One. Notes References Bereshit (parashah) Biblical murder victims Book of Genesis people Children of Adam and Eve Male murder victims Shepherds Uthras
An animal is a multicellular, eukaryotic organism of the kingdom Animalia or Metazoa. Animal, Animals, or The Animal may also refer to: People The Animal (nickname), a list of people nicknamed "The Animal" or "Animal" Animal Hamaguchi, a ring name of Japanese retired professional wrestler Heigo Hamaguchi (born 1947) Road Warrior Animal or Animal, ring names of American professional wrestler Joseph Michael Laurinaitis (1960–2020) Books and publications Animal (book), full title Animal: The Definitive Visual Guide to The World's WildLife Animal, 2012 novel by K'wan Foye Animal (journal), full title: Animal: An International Journal of Animal Bioscience Animals (novel), a 2014 novel by Emma Jane Unsworth Film and television Films Animal (1977 film), a French film (L'Animal) starring Jean-Paul Belmondo and Raquel Welch Animals (1998 film), an American film starring Tim Roth and Rod Steiger Animal (2001 film), an Argentine comedy film by Sergio Bizzio with Carlos Roffé Animal (2005 film), an American direct-to-video action drama film starring Ving Rhames and Terrance Howard Animal (2014 film), an American horror film starring Keke Palmer Animal (2018 film), an Argentine film Animals (2003 film), a stand-up show written and performed by Ricky Gervais Animals (2012 film), a Spanish film Animals (2014 film), a British drama film written by and starring David Dastmalchian Animals (2017 film), a German film Animals (2019 film), an Australian film Animals (2021 film), a psychological thriller film The Animal, a 2001 American comedy film featuring Rob Schneider The Animals (film), a 2012 Filipino coming-of-age film by Gino M. Santos Animal (2023 film), a 2023 Indian Hindi language action thriller film Television Animal (TV series), an American nature documentary series Animals (American TV series), a 2016–2018 animated series Animals (South Korean TV series), a 2015 reality-variety show "Animals" (The Goodies), a 1980 episode "Animals" (Men Behaving Badly), a 1992 episode "Animals" (Off the Air), a 2011 episode "Animals" (The Vicar of Dibley), a 1994 episode "The Animals" (Orange Is the New Black), a 2016 episode Animal (audio drama), a 2011 audio drama based on Doctor Who Characters Animal (Muppet), a character from the television series The Muppet Show Animal, a character in the television series Takeshi's Castle Animal, played by Ken Hudson Campbell, a character on the TV sitcom Herman's Head Dennis "Animal" Price, a character on the TV series Lou Grant Music The Animals, a British rock band A.N.I.M.A.L., an Argentine heavy metal band Animal (Nick Culmer) lead singer of the Anti-Nowhere League Albums Animal (Animosity album), 2007 Animal (Bar-Kays album), 1989 Animal (Big Scary album), 2016 Animal (Kesha album), 2010 Animal (Lump album), 2021 Animal (María Becerra album), 2021 Animal (Motor Ace album), 2005 Animals (Pink Floyd album), 1977 Animals (This Town Needs Guns album), 2008 The Animals (American album), by the Animals, 1964 The Animals (British album), by the Animals, 1964 Animal, a 2009 album by AutoKratz Animal, a 2013 album by Berlin Animal, a 2008 album by Far East Movement Animal!, a 2008 album by Margot & the Nuclear So and So's EPs Animals (EP) by Ryan Starx, 2013 Animal, a 2015 EP by Hidden in Plain View A.N.I.M.A.L, a 2019 EP by John Newman Songs "Animal" "Animal" (Álvaro Soler song), 2017 "Animal" (Conor Maynard song), 2013 "Animal" (Def Leppard song), 1987 "Animal" (Jebediah song), 1999 "Animal" (Juvenile song), 2006 "Animal" (María Becerra and Cazzu song), 2022 "Animal" (Miike Snow song), 2009 "Animal" (Neon Trees song), 2010 "Animal" (Pearl Jam song), 1994 "Animal" (R.E.M. song), 2004 "Animal" (R.I.O. song), 2011 "Animal" (Trey Songz song), 2017 "Animal" (Troye Sivan song), 2018 "Animal", by Against Me! from New Wave "Animal", by Ani DiFranco from Educated Guess "Animal", by Anti-Nowhere League from We Are...The League, 1982 "Animal", by Aurora from A Different Kind of Human (Step 2) "Animal", by Black Light Burns from Cruel Melody "Animal", by Ellie Goulding from Lights "Animal", by Karen O and the Kids from Where the Wild Things Are "Animal", by Kat DeLuna from 9 Lives "Animal", by Kesha from Animal "Animal", by Mabel from About Last Night..., 2022 "Animal", by the Men from Open Your Heart, 2012 "Animal", by Mindless Self Indulgence from If "Animal", by Mudmen from Overrated "Animal", by Nada Surf from You Know Who You Are, 2016 "Animal", by Subhumans from Demolition War "Animal", by Sunhouse from Crazy On The Weekend "Animal", by The Kinks from To the Bone "Animal", by Toto from Past to Present 1977–1990 "Animal (F**k Like a Beast)", by W.A.S.P., 1984 "Animals" "Animals" (Architects song), 2020 "Animals" (Kevin Ayers song), 1980 "Animals" (Maroon 5 song), 2014 "Animals" (Martin Garrix song), 2013 "Animals" (Muse song), 2012 "Animals" (Nickelback song), 2005 "Animals", by CocoRosie from The Adventures of Ghosthorse and Stillborn "Animals", by Coldplay as one of the B-sides for "Clocks" "Animals", by Dead Poetic from Vices "Animals", by Talking Heads from Fear of Music "Animals", by The End from Elementary "Animals", by Todrick Hall featuring Matt Bloyd from Forbidden "The Animal" "The Animal" (Disturbed song), 2010 "The Animal", by Steve Vai from Passion and Warfare Other uses ANIMAL (computer worm), an early self-replicating computer program ANIMAL (image processing), an interactive software environment for image processing Operation Animals, a World War II Allied deception operation in Greece Animals (Israeli organization), an animal rights group based in Israel See also Animals, Animals, Animals, an American educational television series (1976–1981)
An adventure is an exciting experience or undertaking that is typically bold, sometimes risky. Adventures may be activities with danger such as traveling, exploring, skydiving, mountain climbing, scuba diving, river rafting, or other extreme sports. Adventures are often undertaken to create psychological arousal or in order to achieve a greater goal, such as the pursuit of knowledge that can only be obtained by such activities. Motivation Adventurous experiences create psychological arousal, which can be interpreted as negative (e.g. fear) or positive (e.g. flow). For some people, adventure becomes a major pursuit in and of itself. According to adventurer André Malraux, in his Man's Fate (1933), "If a man is not ready to risk his life, where is his dignity?" Similarly, Helen Keller stated that "Life is either a daring adventure or nothing." Outdoor adventurous activities are typically undertaken for the purposes of recreation or excitement: examples are adventure racing and adventure tourism. Adventurous activities can also lead to gains in knowledge, such as those undertaken by explorers and pioneersthe British adventurer Jason Lewis, for example, uses adventures to draw global sustainability lessons from living within finite environmental constraints on expeditions to share with schoolchildren. Adventure education intentionally uses challenging experiences for learning. Author Jon Levy suggests that an experience should meet several criteria to be considered an adventure: Be remarkable—that is, worth talking about Involve adversity or perceived risk Bring about personal growth. Mythology and fiction Some of the oldest and most widespread stories in the world are stories of adventure, such as Homer's Odyssey. The knight errant was the form the "adventure seeker" character took in the Late Middle Ages. Adventure fiction exhibits these "protagonist on adventurous journey" characteristics, as do many popular feature films, such as Star Wars and Raiders of the Lost Ark. Outdoors Adventure books may have the theme of the hero or main character going to face the wilderness or Mother Nature. Examples include books such as Hatchet or My Side of the Mountain. These books are less about "questing", such as in mythology or other adventure novels, but more about surviving on their own, living off the land, gaining new experiences, and becoming closer to the natural world. Questing Many adventures are based on the idea of a quest: the hero goes off in pursuit of a reward, whether it be a skill, prize, treasure, or perhaps the safety of a person. On the way, the hero must overcome various obstacles to obtain their reward. Video games In video game culture, an adventure game is a video game in which the player assumes the role of a protagonist in an interactive story driven by exploration and puzzle solving. The genre's focus on story allows it to draw heavily from other narrative-based media, literature and film, encompassing a wide variety of literary genres. Many adventure games (text and graphic) are designed for a single player, since this emphasis on story and character makes multi-player design difficult. Nonfiction works From ancient times, travelers and explorers have written about their adventures. Journals which became best-sellers in their day were written, such as Marco Polo's journal The Travels of Marco Polo or Mark Twain's Roughing It. Others were personal journals, only later published, such as the journals of Meriwether Lewis and William Clark or Captain James Cook's journals. There are also books written by those not directly a part of the adventure in question, such as The Right Stuff by Tom Wolfe or books written by those participating in the adventure but in a format other than that of a journal, such as Conquistadors of the Useless by Lionel Terray. Documentaries often use the theme of adventure as well. Adventure sports There are many sports classified as adventure sports, due to their inherent danger and excitement. Some of these include mountain climbing, skydiving, or other extreme sports. See also Adventure film Adventure playground Adventure travel Expedition Exploration Filibuster (military) List of genres Novelty seeking Overlanding Sports Tourism Travel References External links Martin Feeney Going on a journey: Life in Year 10 Website of the Research Unit "Philology of Adventure": ongoing research project on the literary history of the adventure pattern What is an adventure? A definition of "adventure", "hero" and "epic" with an illustration of the hero's journey. Wikivoyage
Asia Minor is an alternative name for Anatolia, the westernmost protrusion of Asia, comprising the majority of the Republic of Turkey. Asia Minor may also refer to: Asia Minor (album), an album by Jamaican-born jazz trumpeter Dizzy Reece "Asia Minor" (instrumental), a 1961 instrumental recording by Jimmy Wisner (operating under the name Kokomo) See also Asia Major (disambiguation)
Transport in Angola comprises: Roads Railways There are three separate railway lines in Angola: Luanda Railway (CFL) (northern); Benguela Railway (CFB) (central), operated by the Lobito Atlantic Railway joint venture; Moçâmedes Railway (CFM) (southern); Reconstruction of these three lines began in 2005 and they are now all operational. The Benguela Railway connects to the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Waterways 1,300 km navigable (2008) country comparison to the world: 36 Pipelines gas 352 km; liquid petroleum gas 85 km; crude oil 1,065 km (2013) In April 2012, the Zambian Development Agency (ZDA) and an Angolan company signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to build a multi-product pipeline from Lobito to Lusaka, Zambia, to deliver various refined products to Zambia. Angola plans to build an oil refinery in Lobito in the coming years. Ports and harbors The government plans to build a deep-water port at Barra do Dande, north of Luanda, in Bengo province near Caxito. Merchant marine total: 58 country comparison to the world: 115 by type: cargo 13, oil tanker 8, other 37 (2008) Airports 102 (2021) Airports – with paved runways total: 30 over 3,047 m: 5 2,438 to 3,047 m: 8 1,524 to 2,437 m: 12 914 to 1,523 m: 4 under 914 m: 1 (2008) Airports – with unpaved runways total: 181 (2008) over 3,047 m: 2 2,438 to 3,047 m: 5 1,524 to 2,437 m: 32 914 to 1,523 m: 100 under 914 m: 42 (2008) Angolan Airlines TAAG Angola Airlines Sonair Fly Angola Heliports total: 1 (2021) International and domestic services are maintained by TAAG Angola Airlines, Aeroflot, British Airways, Brussels Airlines, Lufthansa, Air France, Cubana, Ethiopian Airlines, Emirates, Delta Air Lines, Royal Air Maroc, Iberia, Hainan Airlines, Kenya Airways, South African Airways, TAP Air Portugal and several regional carriers. There are airstrips at Benguela, Cabinda, Huambo, Moçâmedes, and Catumbela. References
The foreign relations of Angola are based on Angola's strong support of U.S. foreign policy as the Angolan economy is dependent on U.S. foreign aid. From 1975 to 1989, Angola was aligned with the Eastern bloc, in particular the Soviet Union, Libya, and Cuba. Since then, it has focused on improving relationships with Western countries, cultivating links with other Portuguese-speaking countries, and asserting its own national interests in Central Africa through military and diplomatic intervention. In 1993, it established formal diplomatic relations with the United States. It has entered the Southern African Development Community as a vehicle for improving ties with its largely Anglophone neighbors to the south. Zimbabwe and Namibia joined Angola in its military intervention in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where Angolan troops remain in support of the Joseph Kabila government. It also has intervened in the Republic of the Congo (Brazzaville) in support of Denis Sassou-Nguesso in the civil war. Since 1998, Angola has successfully worked with the United Nations Security Council to impose and carry out sanctions on UNITA. More recently, it has extended those efforts to controls on conflict diamonds, the primary source of revenue for UNITA during the Civil War that ended in 2002. At the same time, Angola has promoted the revival of the Community of Portuguese-Speaking Countries (CPLP) as a forum for cultural exchange and expanding ties with Portugal (its former ruler) and Brazil (which shares many cultural affinities with Angola) in particular. Angola is a member of the Port Management Association of Eastern and Southern Africa (PMAESA). Diplomatic relations List of countries with which Angola maintains diplomatic relations with: Bilateral relations Africa Americas Asia Europe See also List of diplomatic missions in Angola List of diplomatic missions of Angola Visa requirements for Angolan citizens References External links
A John Adair B. R. Ambedkar Giulio Angioni Jon Altman Arjun Appadurai Talal Asad Timothy Asch Scott Atran Marc Augé B Nigel Barley Fredrik Barth Vasily Bartold Keith H. Basso Daisy Bates Gregory Bateson Mary Catherine Bateson Ruth Behar Ruth Benedict Dorothy A. Bennett Carl H. Berendt Lee Berger Brent Berlin Catherine Helen Webb Berndt Catherine L. Besteman Theodore C. Bestor Lewis Binford Evelyn Blackwood Wilhelm Bleek Maurice Bloch Anton Blok Franz Boas Tom Boellstorff Paul Bohannan Dmitri Bondarenko Pere Bosch-Gimpera Pierre Bourdieu Philippe Bourgois Paul Broca Christian Bromberger Kari Bruwelheide Peter Buck (Te Rangi Hīroa) C Julio Caro Baroja Edmund Carpenter Napoleon Chagnon Pierre Clastres Mabel Cook Cole Malcolm Carr Collier Harold C. Conklin Carleton S. Coon Frank Hamilton Cushing D Regna Darnell Raymond Dart Emma Lou Davis Wade Davis Ernesto de Martino Ella Cara Deloria Raymond J. DeMallie Philippe Descola Stanley Diamond Mary Douglas Cora Du Bois Eugene Dubois Robin Dunbar Ann Dunham Katherine Dunham Elizabeth Cullen Dunn Émile Durkheim E Mary Lindsay Elmendolf Verrier Elwin Matthew Engelke Friedrich Engels Arturo Escobar E. E. Evans-Pritchard F James Ferguson Raymond Firth Raymond D. Fogelson Meyer Fortes Gregory Forth Dian Fossey Kate Fox Robin Fox James Frazer Lina Fruzzetti G Clifford Geertz Alfred Gell Ernest Gellner Herb Di Gioia Max Gluckman Maurice Godelier Jane Goodall Marjorie Harness Goodwin Igor Gorevich Harold A. Gould David Graeber Hilma Granqvist J. Patrick Gray Marcel Griaule Jacob Grimm Wilhelm Grimm H Abdellah Hammoudi Michael Harkin Michael Harner John P. Harrington Marvin Harris K. David Harrison Kirsten Hastrup Jacquetta Hawkes Brian Douglas Hayden Rose Oldfield Hayes Stephen C. Headley Thor Heyerdahl Arthur Maurice Hocart Ian Hodder E. Adamson Hoebel Earnest Hooton Robin W.G. Horton Aleš Hrdlička Eva Verbitsky Hunt Dell Hymes I Miyako Inoue Bill Irons J Ira Jacknis John M. Janzen Thomas Des Jean F. Landa Jocano Alfred E. Johnson William Jones Michal Josephy Jeffrey S. Juris K Sergei Kan Jomo Kenyatta David Kertzer Alice Beck Kehoe Anatoly Khazanov Dolly Kikon Richard G. Klein Chris Knight Eduardo Kohn Dorinne K. Kondo Andrey Korotayev Conrad Kottak Charles H. Kraft Grover Krantz Alfred L. Kroeber Theodora Kroeber Lars Krutak Adam Kuper L William Labov George Lakoff Harold E. Lambert Edmund Leach Eleanor Leacock Murray Leaf Louis Leakey Mary Leakey Richard Leakey Richard Borshay Lee Charles Miller Leslie Claude Lévi-Strauss Ellen Lewin C. Scott Littleton Albert Buell Lewis Oscar Lewis Phillip Harold Lewis Roland Littlewood Iris López Robert Lowie Nancy Lurie M Alan Macfarlane Saba Mahmood Bronisław Malinowski George Marcus Jonathan M. Marks Karl Marx John Alden Mason Michael Atwood Mason Marcel Mauss Phillip McArthur Irma McClaurin Charles Harrison McNutt Margaret Mead Mervyn Meggitt Josef Mengele Nicholas Miklouho-Maclay Emily Martin Horace Mitchell Miner Sidney Mintz Ashley Montagu James Mooney Henrietta L. Moore John H. Moore Lewis H. Morgan Desmond Morris George Murdock Yolanda Murphy N Laura Nader Moni Nag Jeremy Narby Raoul Naroll Josiah Nott Erland Nordenskiöld O Gananath Obeyesekere Kaori O'Connor Aihwa Ong Marvin Opler Morris Opler Sherry Ortner Keith F. Otterbein Evelia Edith Oyhenart P Elsie Clews Parsons Bronislav Pilsudski Thomas J. Pluckhahn Hortense Powdermaker A.H.J. Prins Harald E.L. Prins Q Buell Quain James Quesada R Paul Rabinow Wilhelm Radloff Laurence Ralph Lucinda Ramberg Roy Rappaport Hans Ras Alfred Reginald Radcliffe-Brown Margaret Read Gerardo Reichel-Dolmatoff Kathy Reichs Audrey Richards W. H. R. Rivers Paul Rivet Joel Robbins Renato Rosaldo Gayle Rubin Robert A. Rubinstein S Marshall Sahlins Noel B. Salazar Roger Sandall Edward Sapir Patricia Sawin Nancy Scheper-Hughes Wilhelm Schmidt Tobias Schneebaum James C. Scott Thayer Scudder Elman Service Afanasy Shchapov Gerald F. Schroedl Florence Connolly Shipek Sydel Silverman Audra Simpson Cathy Small Christen A. Smith Jacques Soustelle Melford Spiro James Spradley Julian Steward Herbert Spencer Marilyn Strathern William Sturtevant Niara Sudarkasa T Michael Taussig Sharika Thiranagama Edward Burnett Tylor Colin Turnbull Victor Turner Bruce Trigger V Karl Verner L. P. Vidyarthi Eduardo Viveiros de Castro Christoph von Fürer-Haimendorf W Anthony F. C. Wallace Lee Henderson Watkins Camilla Wedgwood Hank Wesselman Kath Weston Douglas R. White Isobel Mary White Leslie White Tim White Benjamin Whorf Unni Wikan Clark Wissler Eric Wolf Alvin Wolfe Sol Worth Y Nur Yalman Kim Yeshi Z Jarrett Zigon R. Tom Zuidema Fictional anthropologists Mary Albright (Jane Curtin) in the sitcom 3rd Rock from the Sun Temperance "Bones" Brennan (Emily Deschanel) in the television series Bones Temperance Brennan in the novel series Temperance Brennan by Kathy Reichs Chakotay (Robert Beltran) in the television series Star Trek: Voyager Michael Burnham (Sonequa Martin-Green) in the television series Star Trek: Discovery Daniel Jackson (Michael Shanks, James Spader) in the television series and film Stargate SG-1 Charlotte Lewis (Rebecca Mader) in the television series Lost See also List of female anthropologists List of Black Anthropologists List of Chinese sociologists and anthropologists References Anthropologists
Algorithms is a monthly peer-reviewed open-access scientific journal of mathematics, covering design, analysis, and experiments on algorithms. The journal is published by MDPI and was established in 2008. The founding editor-in-chief was Kazuo Iwama (Kyoto University). From May 2014 to September 2019, the editor-in-chief was Henning Fernau (Universität Trier). The current editor-in-chief is Frank Werner (Otto-von-Guericke-Universität Magdeburg). Abstracting and indexing According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2022 impact factor of 2.3. The journal is abstracted and indexed in: See also Journals with similar scope include: ACM Transactions on Algorithms Algorithmica Journal of Algorithms (Elsevier) References External links Computer science journals Open access journals MDPI academic journals English-language journals Academic journals established in 2008 Mathematics journals Monthly journals
Agnostida are an order of extinct arthropods which have classically been seen as a group of highly modified trilobites, though some recent research has doubted this placement. Regardless, they appear to be close relatives as part of the Artiopoda. They are present in the Lower Cambrian fossil record along with trilobites from the Redlichiida, Corynexochida, and Ptychopariida orders, and were highly diverse throughout the Cambrian. Agnostidan diversity severely declined during the Cambrian-Ordovician transition, and the last agnostidans went extinct in the Late Ordovician. Systematics The Agnostida are divided into two suborders — Agnostina and Eodiscina — which are then subdivided into a number of families. As a group, agnostids are isopygous, meaning their pygidium is similar in size and shape to their cephalon. Most agnostid species were eyeless. The systematic position of the order Agnostida within the class Trilobita remains uncertain, and there has been continuing debate whether they are trilobites or a stem group. The challenge to the status has focused on Agnostina partly due to the juveniles of one genus have been found with legs differing dramatically from those of adult trilobites, suggesting they are not members of the lamellipedian clade, of which trilobites are a part. Instead, the limbs of agnostids closely resemble those of stem group crustaceans, although they lack the proximal endite, which defines that group. The study suggested that they were likely the sister taxon to the crustacean stem lineage, and, as such, part of the clade, Crustaceomorpha. Other researchers have suggested, based on a cladistic analyses of dorsal exoskeletal features, that Eodiscina and Agnostida are closely united, and the Eodiscina descended from the trilobite order Ptychopariida. A 2019 study of adult specimens with preserved soft tissue from the Burgess Shale found that agnostidans shared morphological similarities to trilobites and other related artiopodans like nektaspids, and their placement as stem-crustaceans was unsupported. The study recovered agnostidans as the sister group to other trilobites within the Artiopoda. Ecology Scientists have long debated whether the agnostids lived a pelagic or a benthic lifestyle. Their lack of eyes, a morphology not well-suited for swimming, and their fossils found in association with other benthic trilobites suggest a benthic (bottom-dwelling) mode of life. They are likely to have lived on areas of the ocean floor which received little or no light and fed on detritus which descended from upper layers of the sea to the bottom. Their wide geographic dispersion in the fossil record is uncharacteristic of benthic animals, suggesting a pelagic existence. The thoracic segment appears to form a hinge between the head and pygidium allowing for a bivalved ostracodan-type lifestyle. The orientation of the thoracic appendages appears ill-suited for benthic living. Recent work suggests that some agnostids were benthic predators, engaging in cannibalism and possibly pack-hunting behavior. They are sometimes preserved within the voids of other organisms, for instance within empty hyolith conchs, within sponges, worm tubes and under the carapaces of bivalved arthropods, presumably in order to hide from predators or strong storm currents; or maybe whilst scavenging for food. In the case of the tapering worm tubes Selkirkia, trilobites are always found with their heads directed towards the opening of the tube, suggesting that they reversed in; the absence of any moulted carapaces suggests that moulting was not their primary reason for seeking shelter. References External links Order Agnostida by Sam Gon III. The Virtual Fossil Museum – Trilobite Order Agnostida Agnostida fact sheet by Sam Gon III. "Earth's Early Cannibals Caught in the Act", by Larry O'Hanlon, news.discovery.com. Trilobite orders Cambrian trilobites Ordovician trilobites Fossil taxa described in 1864 Cambrian first appearances Late Ordovician extinctions Taxa named by John William Salter
In law, an abstract is a brief statement that contains the most important points of a long legal document or of several related legal papers. Types of legislation The abstract of title, used in real estate transactions, is the more common form of abstract. An abstract of title lists all the owners of a piece of land, a house, or a building before it came into possession of the present owner. The abstract also records all deeds, wills, mortgages, and other documents that affect ownership of the property. An abstract describes a chain of transfers from owner to owner and any agreements by former owners that are binding on later owners. Patent law In the context of patent law and specifically in prior art searches, searching through abstracts is a common way to find relevant prior art document to question to novelty or inventive step (or non-obviousness in United States patent law) of an invention. Under United States patent law, the abstract may be called "Abstract of the Disclosure". References External links , defining the requirements regarding the abstract in an international application filed under Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) and (previously ), defining the abstract-related requirements in a European patent application Legal research
The ampere ( , ; symbol: A), often shortened to amp, is the unit of electric current in the International System of Units (SI). One ampere is equal to 1 coulomb moving past a point in 1 second, or electrons' worth of charge moving past a point in 1 second. It is named after French mathematician and physicist André-Marie Ampère (1775–1836), considered the father of electromagnetism along with Danish physicist Hans Christian Ørsted. As of the 2019 redefinition of the SI base units, the ampere is defined by fixing the elementary charge to be exactly (coulomb), which means an ampere is an electric current equivalent to elementary charges moving every seconds or elementary charges moving in a second. Prior to the redefinition the ampere was defined as the current passing through 2 parallel wires 1 metre apart that produces a magnetic force of newtons per metre. The earlier CGS system has two units of current, one structured similar to the SI's and the other using Coulomb's law as a fundamental relationship, with the unit of charge defined by measuring the force between two charged metal plates. The unit of current is then defined as one unit of charge per second. In SI, the unit of charge, the coulomb, is defined as the charge carried by one ampere during one second. History The ampere is named for French physicist and mathematician André-Marie Ampère (1775–1836), who studied electromagnetism and laid the foundation of electrodynamics. In recognition of Ampère's contributions to the creation of modern electrical science, an international convention, signed at the 1881 International Exposition of Electricity, established the ampere as a standard unit of electrical measurement for electric current. The ampere was originally defined as one tenth of the unit of electric current in the centimetre–gram–second system of units. That unit, now known as the abampere, was defined as the amount of current that generates a force of two dynes per centimetre of length between two wires one centimetre apart. The size of the unit was chosen so that the units derived from it in the MKSA system would be conveniently sized. The "international ampere" was an early realization of the ampere, defined as the current that would deposit of silver per second from a silver nitrate solution. Later, more accurate measurements revealed that this current is . Since power is defined as the product of current and voltage, the ampere can alternatively be expressed in terms of the other units using the relationship , and thus 1 A = 1 W/V. Current can be measured by a multimeter, a device that can measure electrical voltage, current, and resistance. Former definition in the SI Until 2019, the SI defined the ampere as follows: The ampere is that constant current which, if maintained in two straight parallel conductors of infinite length, of negligible circular cross-section, and placed one metre apart in vacuum, would produce between these conductors a force equal to newtons per metre of length. Ampère's force law states that there is an attractive or repulsive force between two parallel wires carrying an electric current. This force is used in the formal definition of the ampere. The SI unit of charge, the coulomb, was then defined as "the quantity of electricity carried in 1 second by a current of 1 ampere". Conversely, a current of one ampere is one coulomb of charge going past a given point per second: In general, charge was determined by steady current flowing for a time as . This definition of the ampere was most accurately realised using a Kibble balance, but in practice the unit was maintained via Ohm's law from the units of electromotive force and resistance, the volt and the ohm, since the latter two could be tied to physical phenomena that are relatively easy to reproduce, the Josephson effect and the quantum Hall effect, respectively. Techniques to establish the realisation of an ampere had a relative uncertainty of approximately a few parts in 10, and involved realisations of the watt, the ohm and the volt. Present definition The 2019 redefinition of the SI base units defined the ampere by taking the fixed numerical value of the elementary charge to be when expressed in the unit C, which is equal to A⋅s, where the second is defined in terms of , the unperturbed ground state hyperfine transition frequency of the caesium-133 atom. The SI unit of charge, the coulomb, "is the quantity of electricity carried in 1 second by a current of 1 ampere". Conversely, a current of one ampere is one coulomb of charge going past a given point per second: In general, charge is determined by steady current flowing for a time as . Constant, instantaneous and average current are expressed in amperes (as in "the charging current is 1.2 A") and the charge accumulated (or passed through a circuit) over a period of time is expressed in coulombs (as in "the battery charge is "). The relation of the ampere (C/s) to the coulomb is the same as that of the watt (J/s) to the joule. Units derived from the ampere The international system of units (SI) is based on 7 SI base units the second, metre, kilogram, kelvin, ampere, mole, and candela representing 7 fundamental types of physical quantity, or "dimensions", (time, length, mass, temperature, electric current, amount of substance, and luminous intensity respectively) with all other SI units being defined using these. These SI derived units can either be given special names e.g. watt, volt, lux, etc. or defined in terms of others, e.g. metre per second. The units with special names derived from the ampere are: There are also some SI units that are frequently used in the context of electrical engineering and electrical appliances, but can be defined independently of the ampere, notably the hertz, joule, watt, candela, lumen, and lux. SI prefixes Like other SI units, the ampere can be modified by adding a prefix that multiplies it by a power of 10. See also Ammeter Ampacity (current-carrying capacity) Electric current Electric shock Hydraulic analogy Magnetic constant Orders of magnitude (current) References External links The NIST Reference on Constants, Units, and Uncertainty NIST Definition of ampere and μ0 SI base units Units of electric current
An annual plant is a plant that completes its life cycle, from germination to the production of seeds, within one growing season, and then dies. The length of growing seasons and period in which they take place vary according to geographical location, and may not correspond to the four traditional seasonal divisions of the year. Description With respect to the traditional seasons, annual plants are generally categorized into summer annuals and winter annuals. Summer annuals germinate during spring or early summer and mature by autumn of the same year. Winter annuals germinate during the autumn and mature during the spring or summer of the following calendar year. One seed-to-seed life cycle for an annual plant can occur in as little as a month in some species, though most last several months. Oilseed rapa can go from seed-to-seed in about five weeks under a bank of fluorescent lamps. This style of growing is often used in classrooms for education. Many desert annuals are therophytes, because their seed-to-seed life cycle is only weeks and they spend most of the year as seeds to survive dry conditions. Cultivation In cultivation, many food plants are, or are grown as, annuals, including virtually all domesticated grains. Some perennials and biennials are grown in gardens as annuals for convenience, particularly if they are not considered cold hardy for the local climate. Carrot, celery and parsley are true biennials that are usually grown as annual crops for their edible roots, petioles and leaves, respectively. Tomato, sweet potato and bell pepper are tender perennials usually grown as annuals. Ornamental perennials commonly grown as annuals are impatiens, mirabilis, wax begonia, snapdragon, pelargonium, coleus and petunia. Examples of true annuals include corn, wheat, rice, lettuce, peas, watermelon, beans, zinnia and marigold. Summer Summer annuals sprout, flower, produce seed, and die, during the warmer months of the year. The lawn weed crabgrass is a summer annual. Winter Winter annuals germinate in autumn or winter, live through the winter, and then bloom in winter or spring. The plants grow and bloom during the cool season when most other plants are dormant or other annuals are in seed form waiting for warmer weather to germinate. Winter annuals die after flowering and setting seed. The seeds germinate in the autumn or winter when the soil temperature is cool. Winter annuals typically grow low to the ground, where they are usually sheltered from the coldest nights by snow cover, and make use of warm periods in winter for growth when the snow melts. Some common winter annuals include henbit, deadnettle, chickweed, and winter cress. Winter annuals are important ecologically, as they provide vegetative cover that prevents soil erosion during winter and early spring when no other cover exists and they provide fresh vegetation for animals and birds that feed on them. Although they are often considered to be weeds in gardens, this viewpoint is not always necessary, as most of them die when the soil temperature warms up again in early to late spring when other plants are still dormant and have not yet leafed out. Even though they do not compete directly with cultivated plants, sometimes winter annuals are considered a pest in commercial agriculture, because they can be hosts for insect pests or fungal diseases (such as ovary smut, Microbotryum sp.) which attack crops being cultivated. The property that prevents the soil from drying out can also be problematic for commercial agriculture. Molecular genetics In 2008, it was discovered that the inactivation of only two genes in one species of annual plant leads to its conversion into a perennial plant. Researchers deactivated the SOC1 and FUL genes (which control flowering time) of Arabidopsis thaliana. This switch established phenotypes common in perennial plants, such as wood formation. See also - Plant that flowers & sets seeds once, then dies. Ephemeral plant References External links Garden plants
The anthophytes are a paraphyletic grouping of plant taxa bearing flower-like reproductive structures. The group, once thought to be a clade, contained the angiosperms - the extant flowering plants, such as roses and grasses - as well as the Gnetales and the extinct Bennettitales. Detailed morphological and molecular studies have shown that the group is not actually monophyletic, with proposed floral homologies of the gnetophytes and the angiosperms having evolved in parallel. This makes it easier to reconcile molecular clock data that suggests that the angiosperms diverged from the gymnosperms around 320-300 mya. Some more recent studies have used the word anthophyte to describe a hypothetical group which includes the angiosperms and a variety of extinct seed plant groups (with various suggestions including at least some of the following groups: glossopterids, corystosperms, Petriellales Pentoxylales, Bennettitales and Caytoniales), but not the Gnetales. References Historically recognized plant taxa
The Alismatales (alismatids) are an order of flowering plants including about 4,500 species. Plants assigned to this order are mostly tropical or aquatic. Some grow in fresh water, some in marine habitats. Perhaps the most important food crop in the order is the corm of the taro plant, Colocasia esculenta. Description The Alismatales comprise herbaceous flowering plants of often aquatic and marshy habitats, and the only monocots known to have green embryos other than the Amaryllidaceae. They also include the only marine angiosperms growing completely submerged, the seagrasses. The flowers are usually arranged in inflorescences, and the mature seeds lack endosperm. Both marine and freshwater forms include those with staminate flowers that detach from the parent plant and float to the surface. There they can pollinate carpellate flowers floating on the surface via long pedicels. In others, pollination occurs underwater, where pollen may form elongated strands, increasing chance of success. Most aquatic species have a totally submerged juvenile phase, and flowers are either floating or emerge above the water's surface. Vegetation may be totally submersed, have floating leaves, or protrude from the water. Collectively, they are commonly known as "water plantain". Taxonomy The Alismatales contain about 165 genera in 13 families, with a cosmopolitan distribution. Phylogenetically, they are basal monocots, diverging early in evolution relative to the lilioid and commelinid monocot lineages. Together with the Acorales, the Alismatales are referred to informally as the alismatid monocots. Early systems The Cronquist system (1981) places the Alismatales in subclass Alismatidae, class Liliopsida [= monocotyledons] and includes only three families as shown: Alismataceae Butomaceae Limnocharitaceae Cronquist's subclass Alismatidae conformed fairly closely to the order Alismatales as defined by APG, minus the Araceae. The Dahlgren system places the Alismatales in the superorder Alismatanae in the subclass Liliidae [= monocotyledons] in the class Magnoliopsida [= angiosperms] with the following families included: Alismataceae Aponogetonaceae Butomaceae Hydrocharitaceae Limnocharitaceae In Tahktajan's classification (1997), the order Alismatales contains only the Alismataceae and Limnocharitaceae, making it equivalent to the Alismataceae as revised in APG-III. Other families included in the Alismatates as currently defined are here distributed among 10 additional orders, all of which are assigned, with the following exception, to the Subclass Alismatidae. Araceae in Tahktajan 1997 is assigned to the Arales and placed in the Subclass Aridae; Tofieldiaceae to the Melanthiales and placed in the Liliidae. Angiosperm Phylogeny Group The Angiosperm Phylogeny Group system (APG) of 1998 and APG II (2003) assigned the Alismatales to the monocots, which may be thought of as an unranked clade containing the families listed below. The biggest departure from earlier systems (see below) is the inclusion of family Araceae. By its inclusion, the order has grown enormously in number of species. The family Araceae alone accounts for about a hundred genera, totaling over two thousand species. The rest of the families together contain only about five hundred species, many of which are in very small families. The APG III system (2009) differs only in that the Limnocharitaceae are combined with the Alismataceae; it was also suggested that the genus Maundia (of the Juncaginaceae) could be separated into a monogeneric family, the Maundiaceae, but the authors noted that more study was necessary before the Maundiaceae could be recognized. order Alismatales sensu APG III family Alismataceae (including Limnocharitaceae) family Aponogetonaceae family Araceae family Butomaceae family Cymodoceaceae family Hydrocharitaceae family Juncaginaceae family Posidoniaceae family Potamogetonaceae family Ruppiaceae family Scheuchzeriaceae family Tofieldiaceae family Zosteraceae In APG IV (2016), it was decided that evidence was sufficient to elevate Maundia to family level as the monogeneric Maundiaceae. The authors considered including a number of the smaller orders within the Juncaginaceae, but an online survey of botanists and other users found little support for this "lumping" approach. Consequently, the family structure for APG IV is: family Alismataceae (including Limnocharitaceae) family Aponogetonaceae family Araceae family Butomaceae family Cymodoceaceae family Hydrocharitaceae family Juncaginaceae family Maundiaceae family Posidoniaceae family Potamogetonaceae family Ruppiaceae family Scheuchzeriaceae family Tofieldiaceae family Zosteraceae Phylogeny Cladogram showing the orders of monocots (Lilianae sensu Chase & Reveal) based on molecular phylogenetic evidence: References Further reading B. C. J. du Mortier 1829. Analyse des Familles de Plantes : avec l'indication des principaux genres qui s'y rattachent. Imprimerie de J. Casterman, Tournay W. S. Judd, C. S. Campbell, E. A. Kellogg, P. F. Stevens, M. J. Donoghue, 2002. Plant Systematics: A Phylogenetic Approach, 2nd edition. Sinauer Associates, Sunderland, Massachusetts . , in External links Angiosperm orders
The Apiales are an order of flowering plants. The families are those recognized in the APG III system. This is typical of the newer classifications, though there is some slight variation and in particular, the Torriceliaceae may also be divided. Under this definition, well-known members include carrots, celery, parsley, and Hedera helix (English ivy). The order Apiales is placed within the asterid group of eudicots as circumscribed by the APG III system. Within the asterids, Apiales belongs to an unranked group called the campanulids, and within the campanulids, it belongs to a clade known in phylogenetic nomenclature as Apiidae. In 2010, a subclade of Apiidae named Dipsapiidae was defined to consist of the three orders: Apiales, Paracryphiales, and Dipsacales. Taxonomy Under the Cronquist system, only the Apiaceae and Araliaceae were included here, and the restricted order was placed among the rosids rather than the asterids. The Pittosporaceae were placed within the Rosales, and many of the other forms within the family Cornaceae. Pennantia was in the family Icacinaceae. In the classification system of Dahlgren the families Apiaceae and Araliaceae were placed in the order Ariales, in the superorder Araliiflorae (also called Aralianae). The present understanding of the Apiales is fairly recent and is based upon comparison of DNA sequences by phylogenetic methods. The circumscriptions of some of the families have changed. In 2009, one of the subfamilies of Araliaceae was shown to be polyphyletic. Gynoecia The largest and obviously closely related families of Apiales are Araliaceae, Myodocarpaceae and Apiaceae, which resemble each other in the structure of their gynoecia. In this respect however, the Pittosporaceae is notably distinct from them. Typical syncarpous gynoecia exhibit four vertical zones, determined by the extent of fusion of the carpels. In most plants the synascidiate (i.e. "united bottle-shaped") and symplicate zones are fertile and bear the ovules. Each of the first three families possess mainly bi- or multilocular ovaries in a gynoecium with a long synascidiate, but very short symplicate zone, where the ovules are inserted at their transition, the so-called cross-zone (or "Querzone"). In gynoecia of the Pittosporaceae, the symplicate is much longer than the synascidiate zone, and the ovules are arranged along the first. Members of the latter family consequently have unilocular ovaries with a single cavity between adjacent carpels. References Angiosperm orders Taxa named by Takenoshin Nakai
Asterales () is an order of dicotyledonous flowering plants that includes the large family Asteraceae (or Compositae) known for composite flowers made of florets, and ten families related to the Asteraceae. While asterids in general are characterized by fused petals, composite flowers consisting of many florets create the false appearance of separate petals (as found in the rosids). The order is cosmopolitan (plants found throughout most of the world including desert and frigid zones), and includes mostly herbaceous species, although a small number of trees (such as the Lobelia deckenii, the giant lobelia, and Dendrosenecio, giant groundsels) and shrubs are also present. Asterales are organisms that seem to have evolved from one common ancestor. Asterales share characteristics on morphological and biochemical levels. Synapomorphies (a character that is shared by two or more groups through evolutionary development) include the presence in the plants of oligosaccharide inulin, a nutrient storage molecule used instead of starch; and unique stamen morphology. The stamens are usually found around the style, either aggregated densely or fused into a tube, probably an adaptation in association with the plunger (brush; or secondary) pollination that is common among the families of the order, wherein pollen is collected and stored on the length of the pistil. Taxonomy The name and order Asterales is botanically venerable, dating back to at least 1926 in the Hutchinson system of plant taxonomy when it contained only five families, of which only two are retained in the APG III classification. Under the Cronquist system of taxonomic classification of flowering plants, Asteraceae was the only family in the group, but newer systems (such as APG II and APG III) have expanded it to 11. In the classification system of Rolf Dahlgren the Asterales were in the superorder Asteriflorae (also called Asteranae). The order Asterales currently includes 11 families, the largest of which are the Asteraceae, with about 25,000 species, and the Campanulaceae (bellflowers), with about 2,000 species. The remaining families count together for less than 1500 species. The two large families are cosmopolitan, with many of their species found in the Northern Hemisphere, and the smaller families are usually confined to Australia and the adjacent areas, or sometimes South America. Only the Asteraceae have composite flower heads; the other families do not, but share other characteristics such as storage of inulin that define the 11 families as more closely related to each other than to other plant families or orders such as the rosids. The phylogenetic tree according to APG III for the Campanulid clade is as below. Phylogeny Although most extant species of Asteraceae are herbaceous, the examination of the basal members in the family suggests that the common ancestor of the family was an arborescent plant, a tree or shrub, perhaps adapted to dry conditions, radiating from South America. Less can be said about the Asterales themselves with certainty, although since several families in Asterales contain trees, the ancestral member is most likely to have been a tree or shrub. Because all clades are represented in the Southern Hemisphere but many not in the Northern Hemisphere, it is natural to conjecture that there is a common southern origin to them. Asterales are angiosperms, flowering plants that appeared about 140 million years ago. The Asterales order probably originated in the Cretaceous (145 – 66 Mya) on the supercontinent Gondwana which broke up from 184 – 80 Mya, forming the area that is now Australia, South America, Africa, India and Antarctica. Asterales contain about 14% of eudicot diversity. From an analysis of relationships and diversities within the Asterales and with their superorders, estimates of the age of the beginning of the Asterales have been made, which range from 116 Mya to 82Mya. However few fossils have been found, of the Menyanthaceae-Asteraceae clade in the Oligocene, about 29 Mya. Fossil evidence of the Asterales is rare and belongs to rather recent epochs, so the precise estimation of the order's age is quite difficult. An Oligocene (34 – 23 Mya) pollen is known for Asteraceae and Goodeniaceae, and seeds from Oligocene and Miocene (23 – 5.3 Mya) are known for Menyanthaceae and Campanulaceae respectively. Biogeography The core Asterales are Stylidiaceae (six genera), APA clade (Alseuosmiaceae, Phellinaceae and Argophyllaceae, together seven genera), MGCA clade (Menyanthaceae, Goodeniaceae, Calyceraceae, in total twenty genera), and Asteraceae (about sixteen hundred genera). Other Asterales are Rousseaceae (four genera), Campanulaceae (eighty-four genera) and Pentaphragmataceae (one genus). All Asterales families are represented in the Southern Hemisphere; however, Asteraceae and Campanulaceae are cosmopolitan and Menyanthaceae nearly so. Uses The Asterales, by dint of being a super-set of the family Asteraceae, include some species grown for food, including the sunflower (Helianthus annuus), lettuce (Lactuca sativa) and chicory (Cichorium). Many are also used as spices and traditional medicines. Asterales are common plants and have many known uses. For example, pyrethrum (derived from Old World members of the genus Chrysanthemum) is a natural insecticide with minimal environmental impact. Wormwood, derived from a genus that includes the sagebrush, is used as a source of flavoring for absinthe, a bitter classical liquor of European origin. References Further reading W. S. Judd, C. S. Campbell, E. A. Kellogg, P. F. Stevens, M. J. Donoghue (2002). Plant Systematics: A Phylogenetic Approach, 2nd edition. pp. 476–486 (Asterales). Sinauer Associates, Sunderland, Massachusetts. . External links Angiosperm orders
An allocution, or allocutus, is a formal statement made to the court by the defendant who has been found guilty prior to being sentenced. It is part of the criminal procedure in some jurisdictions using common law. Concept An allocution allows the defendant to explain why the sentence should be lenient. In plea bargains, an allocution may be required of the defendant. The defendant explicitly admits specifically and in detail the actions and their reasons in exchange for a reduced sentence. In principle, that removes any doubt as to the exact nature of the defendant's guilt in the matter. The term "allocution" is used generally only in jurisdictions in the United States, but there are vaguely similar processes in other common law countries. In many other jurisdictions, it is for the defense lawyer to mitigate on their client's behalf, and the defendant rarely has the opportunity to speak. Australia In Australia, the term allocutus is used by the Clerk of Arraigns or another formal associate of the court. It is generally phrased as, "Prisoner at the Bar, you have been found Guilty by a jury of your peers of the offense of XYZ. Do you have anything to say as to why the sentence of this Court should not now be passed upon you?" The defense counsel will then make a plea in mitigation (also called submissions on penalty) in an attempt to mitigate the relative seriousness of the offense and heavily refer to and rely upon the defendant's previous good character and good works, if any. The right to make a plea in mitigation is absolute. If a judge or magistrate refuses to hear such a plea or does not properly consider it, the sentence can be overturned on appeal. United States In most of the United States, defendants are allowed the opportunity to allocute before a sentence is passed. Some jurisdictions hold that as an absolute right. In its absence, a sentence but not the conviction may be overturned, resulting in the need for a new sentencing hearing. In the federal system, Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure 32(i)(4) provides that the court must "address the defendant personally in order to permit the defendant to speak or present any information to mitigate the sentence." The federal public defender recommends that defendants speak in terms of how a lenient sentence will be sufficient but not greater than necessary to comply with the statutory directives set forth in . See also Confession (law) References Criminal procedure Evidence law
Asterism may refer to: Asterism (astronomy), a pattern of stars Asterism (gemology), an optical phenomenon in gemstones Asterism (typography), (⁂) a moderately rare typographical symbol denoting a break in passages See also Aster (disambiguation) Asterisk (disambiguation)
Anacondas or water boas are a group of large snakes of the genus Eunectes. They are found in tropical South America. Four species are currently recognized. Description Although the name applies to a group of snakes, it is often used to refer only to one species, in particular, the common or green anaconda (Eunectes murinus), which is the largest snake in the world by weight, and the second longest after the reticulated python. Etymology The South American names anacauchoa and anacaona were suggested in an account by Peter Martyr d'Anghiera, but the idea of a South American origin was questioned by Henry Walter Bates who, in his travels in South America, failed to find any similar name in use. The word anaconda is derived from the name of a snake from Ceylon (Sri Lanka) that John Ray described in Latin in his (1693) as . Ray used a catalogue of snakes from the Leyden museum supplied by Dr. Tancred Robinson, but the description of its habit was based on Andreas Cleyer who in 1684 described a gigantic snake that crushed large animals by coiling around their bodies and crushing their bones. Henry Yule in his Hobson-Jobson notes that the word became more popular due to a piece of fiction published in 1768 in the Scots Magazine by a certain R. Edwin. Edwin that described a 'tiger' being crushed to death by an anaconda, when there actually never were any tigers in Sri Lanka. Yule and Frank Wall noted that the snake was in fact a python and suggested a Tamil origin meaning elephant killer. A Sinhalese origin was also suggested by Donald Ferguson who pointed out that the word ( lightning/large and stem/trunk) was used in Sri Lanka for the small whip snake (Ahaetulla pulverulenta) and somehow got misapplied to the python before myths were created. The name commonly used for the anaconda in Brazil is sucuri, sucuriju or sucuriuba. Species and other uses of the term "anaconda" The term "anaconda" has been used to refer to: Any member of the genus Eunectes, a group of large, aquatic snakes found in South America: Eunectes murinus, the green anaconda – the largest species, found east of the Andes in Colombia, Venezuela, the Guianas, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia, Brazil and Trinidad and Tobago Eunectes notaeus, the yellow anaconda – a small species, found in eastern Bolivia, southern Brazil, Paraguay, and northeastern Argentina Eunectes deschauenseei, the darkly-spotted anaconda – a rare species, found in northeastern Brazil and coastal French Guiana Eunectes beniensis, the Bolivian anaconda – the most recently defined species, found in the Departments of Beni and Pando in Bolivia The term was previously applied imprecisely, indicating any large snake that constricts its prey, though this usage is now archaic. "Anaconda" is also used as a metaphor for an action aimed at constricting and suffocating an opponent – for example, the Anaconda Plan proposed at the beginning of the American Civil War, in which the Union Army was to effectively "suffocate" the Confederacy. Another example is the anaconda choke in the martial art Brazilian jiu-jitsu, which is performed by wrapping your arms under the opponent's neck and through the armpit, and grasping the biceps of the opposing arm, when caught in this move, you will lose consciousness if you do not tap out. See also Jaguar, a competitor or predator Notes References External links Eunectes Snake common names
The Museum of Work (Arbetets museum) is a museum located in Norrköping, Sweden. The museum is located in the Strykjärn (Clothes iron), a former weaving mill in the old industrial area on the Motala ström river in the city centre of Norrköping. The former textile factory Holmens Bruk (sv) operated in the building from 1917 to 1962. The museum documents work and everyday life by collecting personal stories about people's professional lives from both the past and the present. The museum's archive contain material from memory collections and documentation projects. Since 2009, the museum also houses the EWK – Center for Political Illustration Art, which is based on work of the satirist Ewert Karlsson (1918–2004). For decades he was frequently published in the Swedish tabloid, Aftonbladet. Overview The museum is a national central museum with the task of preserving and telling about work and everyday life. It has, among other things, exhibitions on the terms and conditions of the work and the history of the industrial society. The museum is also known to highlight gender perspective in their exhibitions. The work museum documents work and everyday life by collecting personal stories, including people's professional life from both the past and present. In the museum's archive, there is a rich material of memory collections and documentation projects – over 2600 interviews, stories and photodocumentations have been collected since the museum opened. The museum is also a support for the country's approximately 1,500 working life museums that are old workplaces preserved to convey their history. Exhibitions The Museum of Work shows exhibitions going on over several years, but also shorter exhibitions – including several photo exhibitions on themes that can be linked to work and everyday life. The history of Alva The history of Alva Karlsson is the only exhibition in the museum that is permanent. The exhibition connects to the museum's building and its history as part of the textile industry in Norrköping. Alva worked as a rollers between the years 1927 – 1962. Industriland One of the museum long-term exhibitions is Industriland – when Sweden became modern, the exhibition was in 2007–2013 and consisted of an ongoing bond with various objects that were somehow significant both for working life and everyday during the period 1930–1980. The exhibition also consisted of presentations of the working life museums in Sweden and a number of rooms with themes such as: leisure, world, living and consumption. Framtidsland (Future country) In 2014, the exhibition was inaugurated that takes by where Industriland ends: Future country. It is an exhibition that investigates what a sustainable society is will be part of the museum's exhibitions until 2019. The exhibition consists of materials that are designed based on conversations between young people and researchers around Sweden. The exhibition addresses themes such as work, environment and everyday life. A tour version of the exhibition is given in the locations Falun, Kristianstad and Örebro. EWK – The Center for Political Illustration Art Since 2009, the Museum also houses EWK – center for political illustration art. The museum preserves, develops and conveys the political illustrator Ewert Karlsson's production. The museum also holds theme exhibitions with national and international political illustrators with the aim of highlighting and strengthening the political art. See also List of museums in Sweden Culture of Sweden References External links Arbetetsmuseum Official site Museums in Östergötland County Buildings and structures in Norrköping Industry museums in Sweden Cultural heritage of Sweden
Aztlan Underground is a band from Los Angeles, California that combines Hip-Hop, Punk Rock, Jazz, and electronic music with Chicano and Native American themes, and indigenous instrumentation. They are often cited as progenitors of Chicano rap. Background The band traces its roots to the late-1980s hardcore scene in the Eastside of Los Angeles. They have played rapcore, with elements of punk, hip hop, rock, funk, jazz, indigenous music, and spoken word. Indigenous drums, flutes, and rattles are also commonly used in their music. Their lyrics often address the family and economic issues faced by the Chicano community, and they have been noted as activists for that community. As an example of the politically active and culturally important artists in Los Angeles in the 1990s, Aztlan Underground appeared on Culture Clash on Fox in 1993; and was part of Breaking Out, a concert on pay per view in 1998, The band was featured in the independent films Algun Dia and Frontierland in the 1990s, and on the upcoming Studio 49. The band has been mentioned or featured in various newspapers and magazines: the Vancouver Sun, New Times, BLU Magazine (an underground hip hop magazine), BAM Magazine, La Banda Elastica Magazine, and the Los Angeles Times calendar section. The band is also the subject of a chapter in the book It's Not About a Salary, by Brian Cross. Aztlan Underground remains active in the community, lending their voice to annual events such as The Farce of July, and the recent movement to recognize Indigenous People's Day in Los Angeles and beyond. In addition to forming their own label, Xicano Records and Film, Aztlan Underground were signed to the Basque record label Esan Ozenki in 1999 which enabled them to tour Spain extensively and perform in France and Portugal. Aztlan Underground have also performed in Canada, Australia, and Venezuela. The band has been recognized for their music with nominations in the New Times 1998 "Best Latin Influenced" category, the BAM Magazine 1999 "Best Rock en Español" category, and the LA Weekly 1999 "Best Hip Hop" category. The release of their eponymous third album on August 29, 2009 was met with positive reviews and earned the band four Native American Music Award (NAMMY) nominations in 2010. Discography Decolonize Year:1995 "Teteu Innan" "Killing Season" "Lost Souls" "My Blood Is Red" "Natural Enemy" "Sacred Circle" "Blood On Your Hands" "Interlude" "Aug 2 the 9" "Indigena" "Lyrical Drive By" Sub-Verses Year:1998 "Permiso" "They Move In Silence" "No Soy Animal" "Killing Season" "Blood On Your Hands" "Reality Check" "Lemon Pledge" "Revolution" "Preachers of the Blind State" "Lyrical Drive-By" "Nahui Ollin" "How to Catch a Bullet" "Ik Otik" "Obsolete Man" "Decolonize" "War Flowers" Aztlan Underground Year: 2009 "Moztlitta" "Be God" "Light Shines" "Prey" "In the Field" "9 10 11 12" "Smell the Dead" "Sprung" "Medicine" "Acabando" "Crescent Moon" See also Chicano rap Native American hip hop Rapcore Chicano rock References External links Myspace link Facebook page Native American rappers American rappers of Mexican descent Musical groups from Los Angeles West Coast hip hop musicians
Analog Brothers were an experimental hip hop band featuring Tracy "Ice-T" Marrow (Ice Oscillator) on keyboards, drums and vocals, Keith "Kool Keith" Thornton (Keith Korg) on bass, strings and vocals, Marc Live (Marc Moog) on drums, violins and vocals, Christopher "Black Silver" Rodgers (Silver Synth) on synthesizer, lazar bell and vocals, and Rex Colonel "Pimpin' Rex" Doby Jr. (Rex Roland JX3P) on keyboards, vocals and production. Its album Pimp to Eat featured guest appearances by various members of Rhyme Syndicate, Odd Oberheim, Jacky Jasper (who appears as Jacky Jasper on the song "We Sleep Days" and H-Bomb on "War"), D.J. Cisco from S.M., Synth-A-Size Sisters and Teflon. While the group only recorded one album together as the Analog Brothers, a few bootlegs of its live concert performances, including freestyles with original lyrics, have occasionally surfaced online. After Pimp to Eat, the Analog Brothers continued performing together in various line ups. Kool Keith and Marc Live joined with Jacky Jasper to release two albums as KHM. Marc Live rapped with Ice-T's group SMG. Marc also formed a group with Black Silver called Live Black, but while five of their tracks were released on a demo CD sold at concerts, Live Black's first album has yet to be released. In 2008, Ice-T and Black Silver toured together as Black Ice, and released an album together called Urban Legends. In 2013, Black Silver and newest member to Analog Brothers, Kiew Kurzweil (Kiew Nikon of Kinetic) collaborated on the joint album called Slang Banging (Return to Analog) with production by Junkadelic Music. In addition to all this, the Analog Brothers continue to make frequent appearances on each other's solo albums. Discography 2000 - 2005 A.D. (single), Ground Control Records/Nu Gruv 2000 - Pimp to Eat (LP), Ground Control Records/Mello Music Group 2014 - Slang Banging (Return to Analog), Junkadelic Music References External links Kool Keith's Site Ultrakeith Analog Brothers at Discogs Ice-T American hip hop groups
An abjad (, ; also abgad) is a writing system in which only consonants are represented, leaving vowel sounds to be inferred by the reader. This contrasts with alphabets, which provide graphemes for both consonants and vowels. The term was introduced in 1990 by Peter T. Daniels. Other terms for the same concept include: partial phonemic script, segmentally linear defective phonographic script, consonantary, consonant writing, and consonantal alphabet. Impure abjads represent vowels with either optional diacritics, a limited number of distinct vowel glyphs, or both. Etymology The name abjad is based on the Arabic alphabet's first (in its original order) four letters—corresponding to a, b, j, and d—to replace the more common terms "consonantary" and "consonantal alphabet", in describing the family of scripts classified as "West Semitic". Similar to other semitic languages such as Phoenician, Hebrew and Semitic proto-alphabets: specifically, aleph, bet, gimel, dalet. Terminology According to the formulations of Peter T. Daniels, abjads differ from alphabets in that only consonants, not vowels, are represented among the basic graphemes. Abjads differ from abugidas, another category defined by Daniels, in that in abjads, the vowel sound is implied by phonology, and where vowel marks exist for the system, such as nikkud for Hebrew and ḥarakāt for Arabic, their use is optional and not the dominant (or literate) form. Abugidas mark all vowels (other than the "inherent" vowel) with a diacritic, a minor attachment to the letter, a standalone glyph, or (in Canadian Aboriginal syllabics) by rotation of the letter. Some abugidas use a special symbol to suppress the inherent vowel so that the consonant alone can be properly represented. In a syllabary, a grapheme denotes a complete syllable, that is, either a lone vowel sound or a combination of a vowel sound with one or more consonant sounds. The contrast of abjad versus alphabet has been rejected by other scholars because abjad is also used as a term for the Arabic numeral system. Also, it may be taken as suggesting that consonantal alphabets, in contrast to e.g. the Greek alphabet, were not yet true alphabets. Florian Coulmas, a critic of Daniels and of the abjad terminology, argues that this terminology can confuse alphabets with "transcription systems", and that there is no reason to relegate the Hebrew, Aramaic or Phoenician alphabets to second-class status as an "incomplete alphabet". However, Daniels's terminology has found acceptance in the linguistic community. Origins The first abjad to gain widespread usage was the Phoenician abjad. Unlike other contemporary scripts, such as cuneiform and Egyptian hieroglyphs, the Phoenician script consisted of only a few dozen symbols. This made the script easy to learn, and seafaring Phoenician merchants took the script throughout the then-known world. The Phoenician abjad was a radical simplification of phonetic writing, since hieroglyphics required the writer to pick a hieroglyph starting with the same sound that the writer wanted to write in order to write phonetically, much as man'yōgana (kanji used solely for phonetic use) was used to represent Japanese phonetically before the invention of kana. Phoenician gave rise to a number of new writing systems, including the widely used Aramaic abjad and the Greek alphabet. The Greek alphabet evolved into the modern western alphabets, such as Latin and Cyrillic, while Aramaic became the ancestor of many modern abjads and abugidas of Asia. Impure abjads Impure abjads have characters for some vowels, optional vowel diacritics, or both. The term pure abjad refers to scripts entirely lacking in vowel indicators. However, most modern abjads, such as Arabic, Hebrew, Aramaic, and Pahlavi, are "impure" abjadsthat is, they also contain symbols for some of the vowel phonemes, although the said non-diacritic vowel letters are also used to write certain consonants, particularly approximants that sound similar to long vowels. A "pure" abjad is exemplified (perhaps) by very early forms of ancient Phoenician, though at some point (at least by the 9th century BC) it and most of the contemporary Semitic abjads had begun to overload a few of the consonant symbols with a secondary function as vowel markers, called matres lectionis. This practice was at first rare and limited in scope but became increasingly common and more developed in later times. Addition of vowels In the 9th century BC the Greeks adapted the Phoenician script for use in their own language. The phonetic structure of the Greek language created too many ambiguities when vowels went unrepresented, so the script was modified. They did not need letters for the guttural sounds represented by aleph, he, heth or ayin, so these symbols were assigned vocalic values. The letters waw and yod were also adapted into vowel signs; along with he, these were already used as matres lectionis in Phoenician. The major innovation of Greek was to dedicate these symbols exclusively and unambiguously to vowel sounds that could be combined arbitrarily with consonants (as opposed to syllabaries such as Linear B which usually have vowel symbols but cannot combine them with consonants to form arbitrary syllables). Abugidas developed along a slightly different route. The basic consonantal symbol was considered to have an inherent "a" vowel sound. Hooks or short lines attached to various parts of the basic letter modify the vowel. In this way, the South Arabian abjad evolved into the Ge'ez abugida of Ethiopia between the 5th century BC and the 5th century AD. Similarly, the Brāhmī abugida of the Indian subcontinent developed around the 3rd century BC (from the Aramaic abjad, it has been hypothesized). The other major family of abugidas, Canadian Aboriginal syllabics, was initially developed in the 1840s by missionary and linguist James Evans for the Cree and Ojibwe languages. Evans used features of Devanagari script and Pitman shorthand to create his initial abugida. Later in the 19th century, other missionaries adapted Evans's system to other Canadian aboriginal languages. Canadian syllabics differ from other abugidas in that the vowel is indicated by rotation of the consonantal symbol, with each vowel having a consistent orientation. Abjads and the structure of Semitic languages The abjad form of writing is well-adapted to the morphological structure of the Semitic languages it was developed to write. This is because words in Semitic languages are formed from a root consisting of (usually) three consonants, the vowels being used to indicate inflectional or derived forms. For instance, according to Classical Arabic and Modern Standard Arabic, from the Arabic root Dh-B-Ḥ (to slaughter) can be derived the forms (he slaughtered), (you (masculine singular) slaughtered), (he slaughters), and (slaughterhouse). In most cases, the absence of full glyphs for vowels makes the common root clearer, allowing readers to guess the meaning of unfamiliar words from familiar roots (especially in conjunction with context clues) and improving word recognition while reading for practiced readers. By contrast, the Arabic and Hebrew scripts sometimes perform the role of true alphabets rather than abjads when used to write certain Indo-European languages, including Kurdish, Bosnian, Yiddish, and some Romance languages such as Mozarabic, Aragonese, Portuguese, Spanish and Ladino. Comparative chart of Abjads, extinct and extant See also Abjad numerals (Arabic alphanumeric code) Abugida Gematria (Hebrew & English system of alphanumeric code) Numerology Shorthand (constructed writing systems that are structurally abjads) References Sources External links The Science of Arabic Letters, Abjad and Geometry, by Jorge Lupin is dead Arabic orthography
Altenberg (German for "old mountain" or "mountain of the old") may refer to: Places Austria Altenberg, a town in Sankt Andrä-Wördern, Tulln District Altenberg bei Linz, in Upper Austria Altenberg an der Rax, in Styria Germany Altenberg (Bergisches Land), an area in Odenthal, North Rhine-Westphalia Altenberg Abbey, Cistercian monastery in Altenberg (Bergisches Land) Altenberger Dom, sometimes called Altenberg Cathedral, the former church of this Cistercian monastery Altenberg (Hohenahr), hill in Hesse Altenberg (Limpurg Hills), highest summit in the Limpurg Hills Altenberg, Saxony, a town Altenberga, a municipality in the Saale-Holzfeld district, Thuringia Altenberg Abbey, Solms, a former Premonstratensian nunnery near Wetzlar in Hesse Zinkfabrik Altenberg, a former zinc factory, now a branch of the LVR Industrial Museum, Oberhausen, North Rhine-Westphalia Grube Altenberg, a show mine near Kreuztal, North Rhine-Westphalia Other places Altenberg, the German name for Vieille Montagne (old mountain in French), a former zinc mine in Kelmis, Moresnet, Belgium Altenberg, a district in the city of Bern, Switzerland Other uses Altenberg Lieder (Five Orchestral Songs), composed by Alban Berg in 1911/12 Altenberg Publishing (1880–1934), a former Polish publishing house Altenberg Trio, a Viennese piano trio People with the surname Alfred Altenberg (1878–1924), Polish bookseller and publisher Jakob Altenberg (1875–1944), Austrian businessman Lee Altenberg, theoretical biologist Peter Altenberg (1859–1919), nom de plume of Austrian writer and poet Richard Engländer See also Altenburg (disambiguation)
Alfons Maria Jakob (2 July 1884 – 17 October 1931) was a German neurologist who worked in the field of neuropathology. He was born in Aschaffenburg, Bavaria and educated in medicine at the universities of Munich, Berlin, and Strasbourg, where he received his doctorate in 1908. During the following year, he began clinical work under the psychiatrist Emil Kraepelin and did laboratory work with Franz Nissl and Alois Alzheimer in Munich. In 1911, by way of an invitation from Wilhelm Weygandt, he relocated to Hamburg, where he worked with Theodor Kaes and eventually became head of the laboratory of anatomical pathology at the psychiatric State Hospital Hamburg-Friedrichsberg. Following the death of Kaes in 1913, Jakob succeeded him as prosector. During World War I he served as an army physician in Belgium, and afterwards returned to Hamburg. In 1919, he obtained his habilitation for neurology and in 1924 became a professor of neurology. Under Jakob's guidance the department grew rapidly. He made significant contributions to knowledge on concussion and secondary nerve degeneration and became a doyen of neuropathology. Jakob was the author of five monographs and nearly 80 scientific papers. His neuropathological research contributed greatly to the delineation of several diseases, including multiple sclerosis and Friedreich's ataxia. He first recognised and described Alper's disease and Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease (named along with Munich neuropathologist Hans Gerhard Creutzfeldt). He gained experience in neurosyphilis, having a 200-bed ward devoted entirely to that disorder. Jakob made a lecture tour of the United States (1924) and South America (1928), of which, he wrote a paper on the neuropathology of yellow fever. He suffered from chronic osteomyelitis for the last seven years of his life. This eventually caused a retroperitoneal abscess and paralytic ileus from which he died following operation. Associated eponym Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease: A very rare and incurable degenerative neurological disease. It is the most common form of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies caused by prions. Eponym introduced by Walther Spielmeyer in 1922. Bibliography Die extrapyramidalen Erkrankungen. In: Monographien aus dem Gesamtgebiete der Neurologie und Psychiatry, Berlin, 1923 Normale und pathologische Anatomie und Histologie des Grosshirns. Separate printing of Handbuch der Psychiatry. Leipzig, 1927–1928 Das Kleinhirn. In: Handbuch der mikroskopischen Anatomie, Berlin, 1928 Die Syphilis des Gehirns und seiner Häute. In: Oswald Bumke (edit.): Handbuch der Geisteskrankheiten, Berlin, 1930. References People from Aschaffenburg Academic staff of the University of Hamburg German neurologists German neuroscientists 1884 births 1931 deaths
Arable land (from the , "able to be ploughed") is any land capable of being ploughed and used to grow crops. Alternatively, for the purposes of agricultural statistics, the term often has a more precise definition: A more concise definition appearing in the Eurostat glossary similarly refers to actual rather than potential uses: "land worked (ploughed or tilled) regularly, generally under a system of crop rotation". In Britain, arable land has traditionally been contrasted with pasturable land such as heaths, which could be used for sheep-rearing but not as farmland. Arable land is vulnerable to land degradation and some types of un-arable land can be enriched to create useful land. Climate change and biodiversity loss, are driving pressure on arable land. By country According to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, in 2013, the world's arable land amounted to 1.407 billion hectares, out of a total of 4.924 billion hectares of land used for agriculture. Arable land (hectares per person) Non-arable land Agricultural land that is not arable according to the FAO definition above includes: Meadows and pasturesland used as pasture and grazed range, and those natural grasslands and sedge meadows that are used for hay production in some regions. Permanent cropland that produces crops from woody vegetation, e.g. orchard land, vineyards, coffee plantations, rubber plantations, and land producing nut trees; Other non-arable land includes land that is not suitable for any agricultural use. Land that is not arable, in the sense of lacking capability or suitability for cultivation for crop production, has one or more limitationsa lack of sufficient freshwater for irrigation, stoniness, steepness, adverse climate, excessive wetness with the impracticality of drainage, excessive salts, or a combination of these, among others. Although such limitations may preclude cultivation, and some will in some cases preclude any agricultural use, large areas unsuitable for cultivation may still be agriculturally productive. For example, United States NRCS statistics indicate that about 59 percent of US non-federal pasture and unforested rangeland is unsuitable for cultivation, yet such land has value for grazing of livestock. In British Columbia, Canada, 41 percent of the provincial Agricultural Land Reserve area is unsuitable for the production of cultivated crops, but is suitable for uncultivated production of forage usable by grazing livestock. Similar examples can be found in many rangeland areas elsewhere. Changes in arability Land conversion Land incapable of being cultivated for the production of crops can sometimes be converted to arable land. New arable land makes more food and can reduce starvation. This outcome also makes a country more self-sufficient and politically independent, because food importation is reduced. Making non-arable land arable often involves digging new irrigation canals and new wells, aqueducts, desalination plants, planting trees for shade in the desert, hydroponics, fertilizer, nitrogen fertilizer, pesticides, reverse osmosis water processors, PET film insulation or other insulation against heat and cold, digging ditches and hills for protection against the wind, and installing greenhouses with internal light and heat for protection against the cold outside and to provide light in cloudy areas. Such modifications are often prohibitively expensive. An alternative is the seawater greenhouse, which desalinates water through evaporation and condensation using solar energy as the only energy input. This technology is optimized to grow crops on desert land close to the sea. The use of artifices does not make the land arable. Rock still remains rock, and shallowless than turnable soil is still not considered toilable. The use of artifice is an open-air none recycled water hydroponics relationship. The below described circumstances are not in perspective, have limited duration, and have a tendency to accumulate trace materials in soil that either there or elsewhere cause deoxygenation. The use of vast amounts of fertilizer may have unintended consequences for the environment by devastating rivers, waterways, and river endings through the accumulation of non-degradable toxins and nitrogen-bearing molecules that remove oxygen and cause non-aerobic processes to form. Examples of infertile non-arable land being turned into fertile arable land include: Aran Islands: These islands off the west coast of Ireland (not to be confused with the Isle of Arran in Scotland's Firth of Clyde) were unsuitable for arable farming because they were too rocky. The people covered the islands with a shallow layer of seaweed and sand from the ocean. Today, crops are grown there, even though the islands are still considered non-arable. Israel: The construction of desalination plants along Israel's coast allowed agriculture in some areas that were formerly desert. The desalination plants, which remove the salt from ocean water, have produced a new source of water for farming, drinking, and washing. Slash and burn agriculture uses nutrients in wood ash, but these expire within a few years. Terra preta, fertile tropical soils produced by adding charcoal. Land degradation Examples Examples of fertile arable land being turned into infertile land include: Droughts such as the "Dust Bowl" of the Great Depression in the US turned farmland into desert. Each year, arable land is lost due to desertification and human-induced erosion. Improper irrigation of farmland can wick the sodium, calcium, and magnesium from the soil and water to the surface. This process steadily concentrates salt in the root zone, decreasing productivity for crops that are not salt-tolerant. Rainforest deforestation: The fertile tropical forests are converted into infertile desert land. For example, Madagascar's central highland plateau has become virtually totally barren (about ten percent of the country) as a result of slash-and-burn deforestation, an element of shifting cultivation practiced by many natives. See also Development easement Land use statistics by country List of environment topics Soil fertility References External links Article from Technorati on Shrinking Arable Farmland in the world Surface area of the Earth Agricultural land
Arne Kaijser (born 1950) is a professor emeritus of history of technology at the KTH Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm, and a former president of the Society for the History of Technology. Kaijser has published two books in Swedish: Stadens ljus. Etableringen av de första svenska gasverken and I fädrens spår. Den svenska infrastrukturens historiska utveckling och framtida utmaningar, and has co-edited several anthologies. Kaijser is a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences since 2007 and also a member of the editorial board of two scientific journals: Journal of Urban Technology and Centaurus. Lately, he has been occupied with the history of Large Technical Systems. References External links Homepage Extended homepage 1950 births Living people 20th-century Swedish historians Academic staff of the KTH Royal Institute of Technology Members of the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences Historians of science Historians of technology Linköping University alumni 21st-century Swedish historians
An archipelago ( ), sometimes called an island group or island chain, is a chain, cluster, or collection of islands, or sometimes a sea containing a small number of scattered islands. Examples of archipelagos include: the Indonesian Archipelago, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, the Lakshadweep Islands, the Galápagos Islands, the Japanese archipelago, the Philippine Archipelago, the Maldives, the Balearic Islands, the Åland Islands, The Bahamas, the Aegean Islands, the Hawaiian Islands, the Canary Islands, Malta, the Azores, the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, the British Isles, the islands of the Archipelago Sea, and Shetland. Archipelagos are sometimes defined by political boundaries. For example, while they are geopolitically divided, the San Juan Islands and Gulf Islands geologically form part of a larger Gulf Archipelago. Etymology The word archipelago is derived from the Ancient Greek ἄρχι-(arkhi-, "chief") and πέλαγος (pélagos, "sea") through the Italian arcipelago. In antiquity, "Archipelago" (from Medieval Greek *ἀρχιπέλαγος and Latin ) was the proper name for the Aegean Sea. Later, usage shifted to refer to the Aegean Islands (since the sea has a large number of islands). Geographic types Archipelagos may be found isolated in large amounts of water or neighbouring a large land mass. For example, Scotland has more than 700 islands surrounding its mainland, which form an archipelago. Archipelagos are often volcanic, forming along island arcs generated by subduction zones or hotspots, but may also be the result of erosion, deposition, and land elevation. Depending on their geological origin, islands forming archipelagos can be referred to as oceanic islands, continental fragments, or continental islands. Oceanic islands Oceanic islands are mainly of volcanic origin, and widely separated from any adjacent continent. The Hawaiian Islands and Galapagos Islands in the Pacific, and Mascarene Islands in the south Indian Ocean are examples. Continental fragments Continental fragments correspond to land masses that have separated from a continental mass due to tectonic displacement. The Farallon Islands off the coast of California are an example. Continental archipelagos Sets of islands formed close to the coast of a continent are considered continental archipelagos when they form part of the same continental shelf, when those islands are above-water extensions of the shelf. The islands of the Inside Passage off the coast of British Columbia and the Canadian Arctic Archipelago are examples. Artificial archipelagos Artificial archipelagos have been created in various countries for different purposes. Palm Islands and The World Islands off Dubai were or are being created for leisure and tourism purposes. Marker Wadden in the Netherlands is being built as a conservation area for birds and other wildlife. Superlatives The largest archipelago in the world is the Archipelago Sea which is part of Finland. There are approximately 40,000, mostly uninhabited, islands The largest archipelagic state in the world by area, and by population, is Indonesia. See also Island arc List of landforms List of archipelagos by number of islands List of archipelagos Archipelagic state List of islands Aquapelago References External links 30 Most Incredible Island Archipelagos Coastal and oceanic landforms Oceanographical terminology
Andrey Andreyevich Markov (14 June 1856 – 20 July 1922) was a Russian mathematician best known for his work on stochastic processes. A primary subject of his research later became known as the Markov chain. He was also a strong, close to master-level chess player. Markov and his younger brother Vladimir Andreevich Markov (1871–1897) proved the Markov brothers' inequality. His son, another Andrey Andreyevich Markov (1903–1979), was also a notable mathematician, making contributions to constructive mathematics and recursive function theory. Biography Andrey Markov was born on 14 June 1856 in Russia. He attended the St. Petersburg Grammar School, where some teachers saw him as a rebellious student. In his academics he performed poorly in most subjects other than mathematics. Later in life he attended Saint Petersburg Imperial University (now Saint Petersburg State University). Among his teachers were Yulian Sokhotski (differential calculus, higher algebra), Konstantin Posse (analytic geometry), Yegor Zolotarev (integral calculus), Pafnuty Chebyshev (number theory and probability theory), Aleksandr Korkin (ordinary and partial differential equations), Mikhail Okatov (mechanism theory), Osip Somov (mechanics), and Nikolai Budajev (descriptive and higher geometry). He completed his studies at the university and was later asked if he would like to stay and have a career as a Mathematician. He later taught at high schools and continued his own mathematical studies. In this time he found a practical use for his mathematical skills. He figured out that he could use chains to model the alliteration of vowels and consonants in Russian literature. He also contributed to many other mathematical aspects in his time. He died at age 66 on 20 July 1922. Timeline In 1877, Markov was awarded a gold medal for his outstanding solution of the problem About Integration of Differential Equations by Continued Fractions with an Application to the Equation . During the following year, he passed the candidate's examinations, and he remained at the university to prepare for a lecturer's position. In April 1880, Markov defended his master's thesis "On the Binary Square Forms with Positive Determinant", which was directed by Aleksandr Korkin and Yegor Zolotarev. Four years later in 1884, he defended his doctoral thesis titled "On Certain Applications of the Algebraic Continuous Fractions". His pedagogical work began after the defense of his master's thesis in autumn 1880. As a privatdozent he lectured on differential and integral calculus. Later he lectured alternately on "introduction to analysis", probability theory (succeeding Chebyshev, who had left the university in 1882) and the calculus of differences. From 1895 through 1905 he also lectured in differential calculus. One year after the defense of his doctoral thesis, Markov was appointed extraordinary professor (1886) and in the same year he was elected adjunct to the Academy of Sciences. In 1890, after the death of Viktor Bunyakovsky, Markov became an extraordinary member of the academy. His promotion to an ordinary professor of St. Petersburg University followed in the fall of 1894. In 1896, Markov was elected an ordinary member of the academy as the successor of Chebyshev. In 1905, he was appointed merited professor and was granted the right to retire, which he did immediately. Until 1910, however, he continued to lecture in the calculus of differences. In connection with student riots in 1908, professors and lecturers of St. Petersburg University were ordered to monitor their students. Markov refused to accept this decree, and he wrote an explanation in which he declined to be an "agent of the governance". Markov was removed from further teaching duties at St. Petersburg University, and hence he decided to retire from the university. Markov was an atheist. In 1912, he responded to Leo Tolstoy's excommunication from the Russian Orthodox Church by requesting his own excommunication. The Church complied with his request. In 1913, the council of St. Petersburg elected nine scientists honorary members of the university. Markov was among them, but his election was not affirmed by the minister of education. The affirmation only occurred four years later, after the February Revolution in 1917. Markov then resumed his teaching activities and lectured on probability theory and the calculus of differences until his death in 1922. See also List of things named after Andrey Markov Chebyshev–Markov–Stieltjes inequalities Gauss–Markov theorem Gauss–Markov process Hidden Markov model Markov blanket Markov chain Markov decision process Markov's inequality Markov brothers' inequality Markov information source Markov network Markov number Markov property Markov process Stochastic matrix (also known as Markov matrix) Subjunctive possibility Notes References Further reading А. А. Марков. "Распространение закона больших чисел на величины, зависящие друг от друга". "Известия Физико-математического общества при Казанском университете", 2-я серия, том 15, с. 135–156, 1906. A. A. Markov. "Extension of the limit theorems of probability theory to a sum of variables connected in a chain". reprinted in Appendix B of: R. Howard. Dynamic Probabilistic Systems, volume 1: Markov Chains. John Wiley and Sons, 1971. External links Markov, Andrei Andreyevich Markov, Andrei Andreyevich 19th-century mathematicians from the Russian Empire 20th-century Russian mathematicians Russian atheists Former Russian Orthodox Christians Probability theorists Saint Petersburg State University alumni Full members of the Saint Petersburg Academy of Sciences Full Members of the Russian Academy of Sciences (1917–1925) People from Ryazan Russian statisticians Russian scientists
Angst is fear or anxiety (anguish is its Latinate equivalent, and the words anxious and anxiety are of similar origin). The dictionary definition for angst is a feeling of anxiety, apprehension, or insecurity. Etymology The word angst was introduced into English from the Danish, Norwegian, and Dutch word and the German word . It is attested since the 19th century in English translations of the works of Søren Kierkegaard and Sigmund Freud. It is used in English to describe an intense feeling of apprehension, anxiety, or inner turmoil. In other languages (with words from the Latin for "fear" or "panic"), the derived words differ in meaning; for example, as in the French and . The word angst has existed in German since the 8th century, from the Proto-Indo-European root , "restraint" from which Old High German developed. It is pre-cognate with the Latin , "tensity, tightness" and , "choking, clogging"; compare to the Ancient Greek () "strangle". It entered English in the 19th century as a technical term used in Psychiatry, though earlier cognates existed, such as ange. Existentialism In existentialist philosophy, the term angst carries a specific conceptual meaning. The use of the term was first attributed to Danish philosopher Søren Kierkegaard (1813–1855). In The Concept of Anxiety (also known as The Concept of Dread), Kierkegaard used the word Angest (in common Danish, angst, meaning "dread" or "anxiety") to describe a profound and deep-seated condition. Where non-human animals are guided solely by instinct, said Kierkegaard, human beings enjoy a freedom of choice that we find both appealing and terrifying. It is the anxiety of understanding of being free when considering undefined possibilities of one's life and the immense responsibility of having the power of choice over them. Kierkegaard's concept of angst reappeared in the works of existentialist philosophers who followed, such as Friedrich Nietzsche, Jean-Paul Sartre, and Martin Heidegger, each of whom developed the idea further in individual ways. While Kierkegaard's angst referred mainly to ambiguous feelings about moral freedom within a religious personal belief system, later existentialists discussed conflicts of personal principles, cultural norms, and existential despair. Music Existential angst makes its appearance in classical musical composition in the early twentieth century as a result of both philosophical developments and as a reflection of the war-torn times. Notable composers whose works are often linked with the concept include Gustav Mahler, Richard Strauss (operas and ), Claude Debussy (opera , ballet Jeux), Jean Sibelius (especially the Fourth Symphony), Arnold Schoenberg (A Survivor from Warsaw), Alban Berg, Francis Poulenc (opera Dialogues of the Carmelites), Dmitri Shostakovich (opera Lady Macbeth of Mtsensk, symphonies and chamber music), Béla Bartók (opera Bluebeard's Castle), and Krzysztof Penderecki (especially Threnody to the Victims of Hiroshima). Angst began to be discussed in reference to popular music in the mid- to late 1950s, amid widespread concerns over international tensions and nuclear proliferation. Jeff Nuttall's book Bomb Culture (1968) traced angst in popular culture to Hiroshima. Dread was expressed in works of folk rock such as Bob Dylan's "Masters of War" (1963) and "A Hard Rain's a-Gonna Fall". The term often makes an appearance in reference to punk rock, grunge, nu metal, and works of emo where expressions of melancholy, existential despair, or nihilism predominate. See also References External links Anxiety Emotions Existentialist concepts
Asociación Alumni, usually just Alumni, is an Argentine rugby union club located in Tortuguitas, Greater Buenos Aires. The senior squad currently competes at Top 12, the first division of the Unión de Rugby de Buenos Aires league system. The club has ties with former football club Alumni because both were established by Buenos Aires English High School students. History Background The first club with the name "Alumni" played association football, having been found in 1898 by students of Buenos Aires English High School (BAEHS) along with director Alexander Watson Hutton. Originally under the name "English High School A.C.", the team would be later obliged by the Association to change its name, therefore "Alumni" was chosen, following a proposal by Carlos Bowers, a former student of the school. Alumni was the most successful team during the first years of Argentine football, winning 10 of 14 league championships contested. Alumni is still considered the first great football team in the country. Alumni was reorganised in 1908, "in order to encourage people to practise all kind of sports, specially football". This was the last try to develop itself as a sports club rather than just a football team, such as Lomas, Belgrano and Quilmes had successfully done in the past, but the efforts were not enough. Alumni played its last game in 1911 and was definitely dissolved on April 24, 1913. Rebirth through rugby In 1951, two guards of the BAEHS, Daniel Ginhson (also a former player of Buenos Aires F.C.) and Guillermo Cubelli, supported by the school's alumni and fathers of the students, they decided to establish a club focused on rugby union exclusively. Former players still alive of Alumni football club and descendants of other players already dead gave their permission to use the name "Alumni". On December 13, in a meeting presided by Carlos Bowers himself (who had proposed the name "Alumni" to the original football team 50 years before), the club was officially established under the name "Asociación Juvenil Alumni", also adopting the same colors as its predecessor. The team achieved good results and in 1960 the club presented a team that won the third division of the Buenos Aires league, reaching the second division. Since then, Alumni has played at the highest level of Argentine rugby and its rivalry with Belgrano Athletic Club is one of the fiercest local derbies in Buenos Aires. Alumni would later climb up to first division winning 5 titles: 4 consecutive between 1989 and 1992, and the other in 2001. In 2002, Alumni won its first Nacional de Clubes title, defeating Jockey Club de Rosario 23–21 in the final. Players Current roster As of January 2018: Federico Lucca Gaspar Baldunciel Guido Cambareri Iñaki Etchegaray Bernardo Quaranta Tobias Moyano Mariano Romanini Santiago Montagner Tomas Passerotti Lucas Frana Luca Sabato Franco Batezzatti Franco Sabato Rafael Desanto Nito Provenzano Tomas Bivort Juan.P Ceraso Santiago Alduncin Juan.P Anderson Lucas Magnasco Joaquin Diaz Luzzi Felipe Martignone Tomas Corneille Honours Nacional de Clubes (1): 2002 Torneo de la URBA (6): 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992, 2001, 2018 References External links Rugby clubs established in 1951 A 1951 establishments in Argentina
Alpha (uppercase , lowercase ; , , or ) is the first letter of the Greek alphabet. In the system of Greek numerals, it has a value of one. Alpha is derived from the Phoenician letter aleph , which is the West Semitic word for "ox". Letters that arose from alpha include the Latin letter A and the Cyrillic letter А. Uses Greek In Ancient Greek, alpha was pronounced and could be either phonemically long ([aː]) or short ([a]). Where there is ambiguity, long and short alpha are sometimes written with a macron and breve today: . = "a time" = "tongue" In Modern Greek, vowel length has been lost, and all instances of alpha simply represent the open front unrounded vowel . In the polytonic orthography of Greek, alpha, like other vowel letters, can occur with several diacritic marks: any of three accent symbols (), and either of two breathing marks (), as well as combinations of these. It can also combine with the iota subscript (). Greek grammar In the Attic–Ionic dialect of Ancient Greek, long alpha fronted to (eta). In Ionic, the shift took place in all positions. In Attic, the shift did not take place after epsilon, iota, and rho (; ). In Doric and Aeolic, long alpha is preserved in all positions. Doric, Aeolic, Attic – Ionic , "country" Doric, Aeolic – Attic, Ionic , "report" Privative a is the Ancient Greek prefix or , added to words to negate them. It originates from the Proto-Indo-European * (syllabic nasal) and is cognate with English un-. Copulative a is the Greek prefix or . It comes from Proto-Indo-European *. Mathematics and science The letter alpha represents various concepts in physics and chemistry, including alpha radiation, angular acceleration, alpha particles, alpha carbon and strength of electromagnetic interaction (as fine-structure constant). Alpha also stands for thermal expansion coefficient of a compound in physical chemistry. It is also commonly used in mathematics in algebraic solutions representing quantities such as angles. Furthermore, in mathematics, the letter alpha is used to denote the area underneath a normal curve in statistics to denote significance level when proving null and alternative hypotheses. In ethology, it is used to name the dominant individual in a group of animals. In aerodynamics, the letter is used as a symbol for the angle of attack of an aircraft and the word "alpha" is used as a synonym for this property. In mathematical logic, α is sometimes used as a placeholder for ordinal numbers. The proportionality operator "∝" (in Unicode: U+221D) is sometimes mistaken for alpha. The uppercase letter alpha is not generally used as a symbol because it tends to be rendered identically to the uppercase Latin A. International Phonetic Alphabet In the International Phonetic Alphabet, the letter ɑ, which looks similar to the lower-case alpha, represents the open back unrounded vowel. History and symbolism Origin The Phoenician alphabet was adopted for Greek in the early 8th century BC, perhaps in Euboea. The majority of the letters of the Phoenician alphabet were adopted into Greek with much the same sounds as they had had in Phoenician, but ʼāleph, the Phoenician letter representing the glottal stop , was adopted as representing the vowel ; similarly, hē and ʽayin are Phoenician consonants that became Greek vowels, epsilon and omicron , respectively. Plutarch Plutarch, in Moralia, presents a discussion on why the letter alpha stands first in the alphabet. Ammonius asks Plutarch what he, being a Boeotian, has to say for Cadmus, the Phoenician who reputedly settled in Thebes and introduced the alphabet to Greece, placing alpha first because it is the Phoenician name for ox—which, unlike Hesiod, the Phoenicians considered not the second or third, but the first of all necessities. "Nothing at all," Plutarch replied. He then added that he would rather be assisted by Lamprias, his own grandfather, than by Dionysus' grandfather, i.e. Cadmus. For Lamprias had said that the first articulate sound made is "alpha", because it is very plain and simple—the air coming off the mouth does not require any motion of the tongue—and therefore this is the first sound that children make. According to Plutarch's natural order of attribution of the vowels to the planets, alpha was connected with the Moon. Alpha and Omega As the first letter of the alphabet, Alpha as a Greek numeral came to represent the number 1. Therefore, Alpha, both as a symbol and term, is used to refer to the "first", or "primary", or "principal" (most significant) occurrence or status of a thing. The New Testament has God declaring himself to be the "Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last." (Revelation 22:13, KJV, and see also 1:8). Consequently, the term "alpha" has also come to be used to denote "primary" position in social hierarchy, examples being the concept of dominant "alpha" members in groups of animals. Computer encodings Greek alpha / Coptic alfa For accented Greek characters, see Greek diacritics: Computer encoding. Latin / IPA alpha Mathematical / Technical alpha References Greek letters Vowel letters
AM or Am may refer to: Arts and entertainment Music A minor, a minor scale in music A.M. (Chris Young album) A.M. (Wilco album) AM (Abraham Mateo album) AM (Arctic Monkeys album) AM (musician), American musician Am, the A minor chord symbol Armeemarschsammlung (Army March Collection), catalog of German military march music Andrew Moore (musician), Canadian musician known as A.M. DJ AM, American DJ and producer Skengdo & AM, British hip hop duo Television and radio AM (radio program), Australian current affairs radio program American Morning, American morning television news program Am, Antes del Mediodía, Argentine current affairs television program Am, a character in the anthology Star Wars: Visions Other media Allied Mastercomputer, the antagonist of the short story "I Have No Mouth, and I Must Scream" Education Active Minds, a mental health awareness charity Arts et Métiers ParisTech, a French engineering school Australian Museum, a museum in Australia Master of Arts, an academic degree Military AM, the United States Navy hull classification symbol for "minesweeper" Air marshal, a senior air officer rank used in Commonwealth countries Anti-materiel rifle, rifle designed for use against military equipment Aviation structural mechanic, a U.S. Navy occupational rating Science AM, a complexity class related to Arthur–Merlin protocol Adrenomedullin, a protein Air mass (astronomy), measure of the amount of air along the line of sight in astronomical observations Am, tropical monsoon climate in the Köppen climate classification Americium, symbol Am, a chemical element Attometre, a unit of length attomolar (aM), a unit of molar concentration Technology .am, Internet domain for Armenia .am, a file extension associated with Automake software AM broadcasting, radio broadcasting using amplitude modulation Additive manufacturing, or 3-D printing, a process of making a three-dimensional solid object of virtually any shape from a digital model. Agile modeling, a software engineering methodology for modeling and documenting software systems Amplitude modulation, an electronic communication technique Automated Mathematician, an artificial intelligence program Timekeeping anno martyrum, a method of numbering years in the Coptic calendar Anno Mundi, a calendar era based on the biblical creation of the world ante meridiem, Latin for "before midday", written e.g. 6a.m. Transportation A.M. (automobile), a 1906 French car Aeroméxico (IATA airline code AM), airline in Mexico All-mountain, a discipline of mountain biking Arkansas and Missouri Railroad Other uses Am (cuneiform), a written syllable Member of the Order of Australia, postnominal letters which can be used by a Member of the Order Assembly Member (disambiguation), a political office formerly a Member of the National Assembly for Wales, now Member of the Senedd Member of the London Assembly Amharic language (ISO 639-1 language code am) Anguilla, LOC MARC code AM Armenia (ISO country code AM) Attacking midfielder, a position in association football The Book of Amos, part of the Tanakh and Old Testament First-person singular present of the copula verb to be See also Pro–am `am (disambiguation) A&M (disambiguation) AM2 (disambiguation) AMS (disambiguation)
Azincourt (), historically known in English as Agincourt ( ), is a commune in the Pas-de-Calais department in northern France. It is situated north-west of Saint-Pol-sur-Ternoise on the D71 road between Hesdin and Fruges. The Late Medieval Battle of Agincourt between the English and the French took place in the commune in 1415. Toponym The name is attested as Aisincurt in 1175, derived from a Germanic masculine name Aizo, Aizino and the early Northern French word curt (which meant a farm with a courtyard; derived from the Late Latin cortem). The name has no etymological link with Agincourt, Meurthe-et-Moselle (attested as Egincourt 875), which is derived separately from another Germanic male name *Ingin-. History Azincourt is known for being near the site of the battle fought on 25 October 1415 in which the army led by King Henry V of England defeated the forces led by Charles d'Albret on behalf of Charles VI of France, which has gone down in history as the Battle of Agincourt. According to M. Forrest, the French knights were so encumbered by their armour that they were exhausted even before the start of the battle. After he became king in 1509, Henry VIII is purported to have commissioned an English translation of a Life of Henry V so that he could emulate him, on the grounds that he thought that launching a campaign against France would help him to impose himself on the European stage. In 1513, Henry VIII crossed the English Channel, stopping by at Azincourt. The battle, as was the tradition, was named after a nearby castle called Azincourt. The castle has since disappeared and the settlement now known as Azincourt adopted the name in the seventeenth century. John Cassell wrote in 1857 that "the village of Azincourt itself is now a group of dirty farmhouses and wretched cottages, but where the hottest of the battle raged, between that village and the commune of Tramecourt, there still remains a wood precisely corresponding with the one in which Henry placed his ambush; and there are yet existing the foundations of the castle of Azincourt, from which the king named the field." Population Sights The original battlefield museum in the village featured model knights made out of Action Man figures. This has now been replaced by the Centre historique médiéval d'Azincourt (CHM)a more professional museum, conference centre and exhibition space incorporating laser, video, slide shows, audio commentaries, and some interactive elements. The museum building is shaped like a longbow similar to those used at the battle by archers under King Henry. Since 2004 a large medieval festival organised by the local community, the CHM, The Azincourt Alliance, and various other UK societies commemorating the battle, local history and medieval life, arts and crafts has been held in the village. Prior to this date the festival was held in October, but due to the inclement weather and local heavy clay soil (like the battle) making the festival difficult, it was moved to the last Sunday in July. International relations Azincourt is twinned with Middleham, United Kingdom. See also Communes of the Pas-de-Calais department The neighbourhood of Agincourt, Toronto, Canada, named for Azincourt, not Agincourt, Meurthe-et-Moselle References Communes of Pas-de-Calais Artois
"American shot" or "cowboy shot" is a translation of a phrase from French film criticism, , and refers to a medium-long ("knee") film shot of a group of characters, who are arranged so that all are visible to the camera. The usual arrangement is for the actors to stand in an irregular line from one side of the screen to the other, with the actors at the end coming forward a little and standing more in profile than the others. The purpose of the composition is to allow complex dialogue scenes to be played out without changes in camera position. In some literature, this is simply referred to as a 3/4 shot. One of the other main reasons why French critics called it "American shot" was its frequent use in the western genre. This was because a shot that started at knee level would reveal the weapon of a cowboy, usually holstered at their waist. It is actually the closest the camera can get to an actor while keeping both their face and their holstered gun in frame. The French critics thought it was characteristic of American films of the 1930s or 1940s; however, it was mostly characteristic of cheaper American movies, such as Charlie Chan mysteries where people collected in front of a fireplace or at the foot of the stairs in order to explain what happened a few minutes ago. Howard Hawks legitimized this style in his films, allowing characters to act, even when not talking, when most of the audience would not be paying attention. It became his trademark style. References Cinematography
Applied ethics is the practical aspect of moral considerations. It is ethics with respect to real-world actions and their moral considerations in private and public life, the professions, health, technology, law, and leadership. For example, bioethics is concerned with identifying the best approach to moral issues in the life sciences, such as euthanasia, the allocation of scarce health resources, or the use of human embryos in research. Environmental ethics is concerned with ecological issues such as the responsibility of government and corporations to clean up pollution. Business ethics includes the duties of whistleblowers to the public and to their employers. History Applied ethics has expanded the study of ethics beyond the realms of academic philosophical discourse. The field of applied ethics, as it appears today, emerged from debate surrounding rapid medical and technological advances in the early 1970s and is now established as a subdiscipline of moral philosophy. However, applied ethics is, by its very nature, a multi-professional subject because it requires specialist understanding of the potential ethical issues in fields like medicine, business or information technology. Nowadays, ethical codes of conduct exist in almost every profession. An applied ethics approach to the examination of moral dilemmas can take many different forms but one of the most influential and most widely utilised approaches in bioethics and health care ethics is the four-principle approach developed by Tom Beauchamp and James Childress. The four-principle approach, commonly termed principlism, entails consideration and application of four prima facie ethical principles: autonomy, non-maleficence, beneficence, and justice. Underpinning theory Applied ethics is distinguished from normative ethics, which concerns standards for right and wrong behavior, and from meta-ethics, which concerns the nature of ethical properties, statements, attitudes, and judgments. Whilst these three areas of ethics appear to be distinct, they are also interrelated. The use of an applied ethics approach often draws upon these normative ethical theories: Consequentialist ethics, which hold that the rightness of acts depends only on their consequences. The paradigmatic consequentialist theory is Utilitarianism, which classically holds that whether an act is morally right depends on whether it maximizes net aggregated psychological wellbeing. This theory's main developments came from Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mill who distinguished between Act and Rule utilitarianism. Notable later developments were made by Henry Sidgwick who introduced the significance of motive or intent, and R. M. Hare who introduced the significance of preference in utilitarian decision-making. Other forms of consequentialism include Prioritarianism. Deontological ethics, which hold that acts have an inherent rightness or wrongness regardless of their context or consequences. This approach is epitomized by Immanuel Kant's notion of the categorical imperative, which was the centre of Kant's ethical theory based on duty. Another key deontological theory is natural law, which was heavily developed by Thomas Aquinas and is an important part of the Catholic Church's teaching on morals. Threshold deontology holds that rules ought to govern up to a point despite adverse consequences; but when the consequences become so dire that they cross a stipulated threshold, consequentialism takes over. Virtue ethics, derived from Aristotle's and Confucius' notions, which asserts that the right action will be that chosen by a suitably 'virtuous' agent. Normative ethical theories can clash when trying to resolve real-world ethical dilemmas. One approach attempting to overcome the divide between consequentialism and deontology is case-based reasoning, also known as casuistry. Casuistry does not begin with theory, rather it starts with the immediate facts of a real and concrete case. While casuistry makes use of ethical theory, it does not view ethical theory as the most important feature of moral reasoning. Casuists, like Albert Jonsen and Stephen Toulmin (The Abuse of Casuistry, 1988), challenge the traditional paradigm of applied ethics. Instead of starting from theory and applying theory to a particular case, casuists start with the particular case itself and then ask what morally significant features (including both theory and practical considerations) ought to be considered for that particular case. In their observations of medical ethics committees, Jonsen and Toulmin note that a consensus on particularly problematic moral cases often emerges when participants focus on the facts of the case, rather than on ideology or theory. Thus, a Rabbi, a Catholic priest, and an agnostic might agree that, in this particular case, the best approach is to withhold extraordinary medical care, while disagreeing on the reasons that support their individual positions. By focusing on cases and not on theory, those engaged in moral debate increase the possibility of agreement. Applied ethics was later distinguished from the nascent applied epistemology, which is also under the umbrella of applied philosophy. While the former was concerned with the practical application of moral considerations, the latter focuses on the application of epistemology in solving practical problems. See also Bioethics Business ethics Effective altruism Ethical codes Ethics Medical ethics Outline of ethics Philosophy Precautionary principle Master of Applied Ethics References Further reading (monograph) External links Ethics
An analog signal is any continuous-time signal representing some other quantity, i.e., analogous to another quantity. For example, in an analog audio signal, the instantaneous signal voltage varies continuously with the pressure of the sound waves. In contrast, a digital signal represents the original time-varying quantity as a sampled sequence of quantized values. Digital sampling imposes some bandwidth and dynamic range constraints on the representation and adds quantization error. The term analog signal usually refers to electrical signals; however, mechanical, pneumatic, hydraulic, and other systems may also convey or be considered analog signals. Representation An analog signal uses some property of the medium to convey the signal's information. For example, an aneroid barometer uses rotary position as the signal to convey pressure information. In an electrical signal, the voltage, current, or frequency of the signal may be varied to represent the information. Any information may be conveyed by an analog signal; such a signal may be a measured response to changes in a physical variable, such as sound, light, temperature, position, or pressure. The physical variable is converted to an analog signal by a transducer. For example, sound striking the diaphragm of a microphone induces corresponding fluctuations in the current produced by a coil in an electromagnetic microphone or the voltage produced by a condenser microphone. The voltage or the current is said to be an analog of the sound. Noise An analog signal is subject to electronic noise and distortion introduced by communication channels, recording and signal processing operations, which can progressively degrade the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). As the signal is transmitted, copied, or processed, the unavoidable noise introduced in the signal path will accumulate as a generation loss, progressively and irreversibly degrading the SNR, until in extreme cases, the signal can be overwhelmed. Noise can show up as hiss and intermodulation distortion in audio signals, or snow in video signals. Generation loss is irreversible as there is no reliable method to distinguish the noise from the signal. Converting an analog signal to digital form introduces a low-level quantization noise into the signal due to finite resolution of digital systems. Once in digital form, the signal can be transmitted, stored, and processed without introducing additional noise or distortion using error detection and correction. Noise accumulation in analog systems can be minimized by electromagnetic shielding, balanced lines, low-noise amplifiers and high-quality electrical components. See also Amplifier Analog computer Analog device Analog signal processing Magnetic tape Preamplifier References Analog circuits Electronic design Television terminology Video signal
Arecales is an order of flowering plants. The order has been widely recognised only for the past few decades; until then, the accepted name for the order including these plants was Principes. Taxonomy The APG IV system of 2016 places Dasypogonaceae in this order, after studies showing Dasypogonaceae as sister to Arecaceae. However, this decision has been called into question. Historical taxonomical systems The Cronquist system of 1981 assigned the order to the subclass Arecidae in the class Liliopsida (= monocotyledons). The Thorne system (1992) and the Dahlgren system assigned the order to the superorder Areciflorae, also called Arecanae in the subclass Liliidae (= monocotyledons), with the single family Arecaceae. The APG II system of 2003 recognised the order and placed it in the clade commelinids in the monocots and uses this circumscription: order Arecales family Arecaceae, alternative name Palmae This was unchanged from the APG system of 1998, although it used the spelling "commelinoids" instead of commelinids. Principes In plant taxonomy, Principes is a botanical name, meaning "the first". It was used in the Engler system for an order in the Monocotyledones and later in the Kubitzki system. This order included one family only, the Palmae (alternate name Arecaceae). As the rules for botanical nomenclature provide for the use of such descriptive botanical names above the rank of family it is quite allowed to use this name even today, but in practice most systems prefer the name Arecales. Following this, Principes became the name of the journal of the International Palm Society, becoming Palms in 1999. References External links NCBI Taxonomy Browser Angiosperm orders Late Cretaceous plants Extant Campanian first appearances es:Arecales
The aspect ratio of a geometric shape is the ratio of its sizes in different dimensions. For example, the aspect ratio of a rectangle is the ratio of its longer side to its shorter side—the ratio of width to height, when the rectangle is oriented as a "landscape". The aspect ratio is most often expressed as two integer numbers separated by a colon (x:y), less commonly as a simple or decimal fraction. The values x and y do not represent actual widths and heights but, rather, the proportion between width and height. As an example, 8:5, 16:10, 1.6:1, and 1.6 are all ways of representing the same aspect ratio. In objects of more than two dimensions, such as hyperrectangles, the aspect ratio can still be defined as the ratio of the longest side to the shortest side. Applications and uses The term is most commonly used with reference to: Graphic / image Image aspect ratio Display aspect ratio Paper size Standard photographic print sizes Motion picture film formats Standard ad size Pixel aspect ratio Photolithography: the aspect ratio of an etched, or deposited structure is the ratio of the height of its vertical side wall to its width. HARMST High Aspect Ratios allow the construction of tall microstructures without slant Tire code Tire sizing Turbocharger impeller sizing Wing aspect ratio of an aircraft or bird Astigmatism of an optical lens Nanorod dimensions Shape factor (image analysis and microscopy) Finite Element Analysis Aspect ratios of simple shapes Rectangles For a rectangle, the aspect ratio denotes the ratio of the width to the height of the rectangle. A square has the smallest possible aspect ratio of 1:1. Examples: 4:3 = 1.: Some (not all) 20th century computer monitors (VGA, XGA, etc.), standard-definition television : international paper sizes (ISO 216) 3:2 = 1.5: 35mm still camera film, iPhone (until iPhone 5) displays 16:10 = 1.6: commonly used widescreen computer displays (WXGA) Φ:1 = 1.618...: golden ratio, close to 16:10 5:3 = 1.: super 16 mm, a standard film gauge in many European countries 16:9 = 1.: widescreen TV and most laptops 2:1 = 2: dominoes 64:27 = 2.: ultra-widescreen, 21:9 32:9 = 3.: super ultra-widescreen Ellipses For an ellipse, the aspect ratio denotes the ratio of the major axis to the minor axis. An ellipse with an aspect ratio of 1:1 is a circle. Aspect ratios of general shapes In geometry, there are several alternative definitions to aspect ratios of general compact sets in a d-dimensional space: The diameter-width aspect ratio (DWAR) of a compact set is the ratio of its diameter to its width. A circle has the minimal DWAR which is 1. A square has a DWAR of . The cube-volume aspect ratio (CVAR) of a compact set is the d-th root of the ratio of the d-volume of the smallest enclosing axes-parallel d-cube, to the set's own d-volume. A square has the minimal CVAR which is 1. A circle has a CVAR of . An axis-parallel rectangle of width W and height H, where W>H, has a CVAR of . If the dimension d is fixed, then all reasonable definitions of aspect ratio are equivalent to within constant factors. Notations Aspect ratios are mathematically expressed as x:y (pronounced "x-to-y"). Cinematographic aspect ratios are usually denoted as a (rounded) decimal multiple of width vs unit height, while photographic and videographic aspect ratios are usually defined and denoted by whole number ratios of width to height. In digital images there is a subtle distinction between the display aspect ratio (the image as displayed) and the storage aspect ratio (the ratio of pixel dimensions); see Distinctions. See also Axial ratio Ratio Equidimensional ratios in 3D List of film formats Squeeze mapping Scale (ratio) Vertical orientation References Ratios
Aalborg Municipality () is a municipality in North Jutland Region on the Jutland peninsula in northern Denmark. The municipality straddles the Limfjord, the waterway which connects the North Sea and the Kattegat east-to-west, and which separates the main body of the Jutland peninsula from the island of Vendsyssel-Thy north-to-south. It has a land area of and a population of 222,571 (1. January 2023). It is also the name of the municipality's main city Aalborg and the site of its municipal council, as well as the name of a seaport. The municipality and the town have chosen to retain the traditional spelling of the name as Aalborg, although the new spelling Ålborg is used in other contexts, such as Ålborg Bight (Ålborg Bugt), the body of water which lies to the east of the Jutland peninsula. Municipal reform of 2007 As of 1 January 2007 Aalborg municipality joined with the municipalities of Hals, Nibe, and Sejlflod to form a new Aalborg municipality. The former Aalborg municipality, including the island of Egholm, covered an area of , with a total population of 192,353 (2005). Its last mayor was Henning G. Jensen, a member of the Social Democrats () political party. The former municipality was bordered by Sejlflod and Hals to the east, Dronninglund and Brønderslev to the north, Aabybro and Nibe to the west, and Støvring and Skørping to the south. It belonged to North Jutland County. Geography Surroundings The waters in the Limfjord splitting the municipality are called Langerak to the east and Gjøl Bredning to the west. The island of Egholm is located in Gjøl Bredning, and is connected by ferry to the city of Aalborg at its southern shore. The area is typical for the north of Jutland. To the west, the Limfjord broadens into an irregular lake (salt water), with low, marshy shores and many islands. Northwest is Store Vildmose ("Greater Wild bog"), a swamp where a mirage is sometimes seen in summer. Southeast lies the similar Lille Vildmose ("Lesser Wild bog"). Store Vildmose was drained and farmed in the beginning of the 20th century, and Lille Vildmose is now the largest moor in Denmark. Urban areas in Aalborg Municipality Aalborg City has a total population of 123,432. The metropolitan area is a conurbation of the Aalborg urban area in Himmerland (102,312) and the urban area in (21,120). Economy North Flying has its head office on the property of Aalborg Airport in , Aalborg Municipality. Politics Municipal council Aalborg's municipal council consists of 31 members, elected every four years. Below are the municipal councils elected since the Municipal Reform of 2007. Twin towns – sister cities Aalborg is twinned with 34 cities, more than any other city in Denmark. Every four years, Aalborg gathers young people from most of its twin towns for a week of sports, known as Ungdomslegene (Youth Games). , Netherlands Antibes, France Büdelsdorf, Germany Edinburgh, Scotland, United Kingdom , Norway Fuglafjørður, Faroe Islands Galway, Ireland Gdynia, Poland Haifa, Israel Hefei, China , Austria , Greenland Karlskoga, Sweden Lancaster, England Lerum, Sweden Liperi, Finland , Iceland Orsa, Sweden Orust, Sweden Ośno Lubuskie, Poland , Russia Racine, United States Rapperswil-Jona, Switzerland Rendalen, Norway Rendsburg, Germany Riga, Latvia Riihimäki, Finland , Greenland Solvang, United States , Romania , Bulgaria Vilnius, Lithuania , Germany References Municipal statistics: NetBorger Kommunefakta, delivered from KMD a.k.a. Kommunedata (Municipal Data) Municipal mergers and neighbors: Eniro map with named municipalities Aalborg in figures 2008, a publication from Aalborg Municipality. External links About Aalborg from Nordjyske Medier Aalborg Municipality's official website VisitAalborg (Aalborg Tourist Office) Website for Aalborg Municipality's former Municipality Reformation Board Public Transport in Aalborg and surroundings Searchable map Aalborg Municipalities of the North Jutland Region Municipalities of Denmark Populated places established in 2007
The northern cavefish or northern blindfish (Amblyopsis spelaea) is found in caves through Kentucky and southern Indiana. It is under review for possible listing under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 in the United States as of 2023, and the IUCN lists the species as near threatened. During a 2013 study of Amblyopsis spelaea, scientists found that the species was divided into two distinct evolutionary lineages: one north of the Ohio River, in Indiana, and one south of the river, in Kentucky. The southern population retained the name A. spelaea and the northern was re-designated Amblyopsis hoosieri in a 2014 paper published in the journal ZooKeys. Neither species is found north of the White River, flowing east to west south of Bedford, Indiana. References Amblyopsidae Cave fish Cavefish, Northern Fish of the United States Fish described in 1842 Taxa named by James Ellsworth De Kay Mammoth Cave National Park
Abatement refers generally to a lessening, diminution, reduction, or moderation; specifically, it may refer to: 421-a tax abatement, property tax exemption in the U.S. state of New York Abatement of debts and legacies, a common law doctrine of wills Abatement in pleading, a legal defense to civil and criminal actions Abatement (heraldry), a modification of the shield or coat of arms imposed by authority for misconduct Asbestos abatement, removal of asbestos from structures Bird abatement, driving or removing undesired birds from an area Dust abatement, the process of inhibiting the creation of excess soil dust Graffiti abatement, a joint effort between groups to eliminate graffiti Marginal abatement cost, the marginal cost of reducing pollution Noise abatement, strategies to reduce noise pollution or its impact Nuisance abatement, regulatory compliance methodology Tax abatement, temporary reduction or elimination of a tax See also Abate (disambiguation)
(; born , ; 16 April 1844 – 12 October 1924) was a French poet, journalist, and novelist with several best-sellers. Ironic and skeptical, he was considered in his day the ideal French man of letters. He was a member of the Académie Française, and won the 1921 Nobel Prize in Literature "in recognition of his brilliant literary achievements, characterized as they are by a nobility of style, a profound human sympathy, grace, and a true Gallic temperament". France is also widely believed to be the model for narrator Marcel's literary idol Bergotte in Marcel Proust's In Search of Lost Time. Early years The son of a bookseller, France, a bibliophile, spent most of his life around books. His father's bookstore specialized in books and papers on the French Revolution and was frequented by many writers and scholars. France studied at the Collège Stanislas, a private Catholic school, and after graduation he helped his father by working in his bookstore. After several years, he secured the position of cataloguer at Bacheline-Deflorenne and at Lemerre. In 1876, he was appointed librarian for the French Senate. Literary career France began his literary career as a poet and a journalist. In 1869, Le Parnasse contemporain published one of his poems, "". In 1875, he sat on the committee in charge of the third Parnasse contemporain compilation. As a journalist, from 1867, he wrote many articles and notices. He became known with the novel (1881). Its protagonist, skeptical old scholar Sylvester Bonnard, embodied France's own personality. The novel was praised for its elegant prose and won him a prize from the Académie Française. In (1893) France ridiculed belief in the occult, and in (1893), France captured the atmosphere of the . He was elected to the Académie Française in 1896. France took a part in the Dreyfus affair. He signed Émile Zola's manifesto supporting Alfred Dreyfus, a Jewish army officer who had been falsely convicted of espionage. France wrote about the affair in his 1901 novel Monsieur Bergeret. France's later works include Penguin Island (, 1908) which satirizes human nature by depicting the transformation of penguins into humans – after the birds have been baptized by mistake by the almost-blind Abbot Mael. It is a satirical history of France, starting in Medieval times, going on to the author's own time with special attention to the Dreyfus affair and concluding with a dystopian future. The Gods Are Athirst (, 1912) is a novel, set in Paris during the French Revolution, about a true-believing follower of Maximilien Robespierre and his contribution to the bloody events of the Reign of Terror of 1793–94. It is a wake-up call against political and ideological fanaticism and explores various other philosophical approaches to the events of the time. The Revolt of the Angels (, 1914) is often considered France's most profound and ironic novel. Loosely based on the Christian understanding of the War in Heaven, it tells the story of Arcade, the guardian angel of Maurice d'Esparvieu. Bored because Bishop d'Esparvieu is sinless, Arcade begins reading the bishop's books on theology and becomes an atheist. He moves to Paris, meets a woman, falls in love, and loses his virginity causing his wings to fall off, joins the revolutionary movement of fallen angels, and meets the Devil, who realizes that if he overthrew God, he would become just like God. Arcade realizes that replacing God with another is meaningless unless "in ourselves and in ourselves alone we attack and destroy Ialdabaoth." "Ialdabaoth", according to France, is God's secret name and means "the child who wanders". He was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1921. He died in 1924 and is buried in the Neuilly-sur-Seine Old Communal Cemetery near Paris. On 31 May 1922, France's entire works were put on the Index Librorum Prohibitorum ("List of Prohibited Books") of the Catholic Church. He regarded this as a "distinction". This Index was abolished in 1966. Personal life In 1877, France married Valérie Guérin de Sauville, a granddaughter of Jean-Urbain Guérin, a miniaturist who painted Louis XVI. Their daughter Suzanne was born in 1881 (and died in 1918). France's relations with women were always turbulent, and in 1888 he began a relationship with Madame Arman de Caillavet, who conducted a celebrated literary salon of the Third Republic. The affair lasted until shortly before her death in 1910. After his divorce, in 1893, France had many liaisons, notably with a Madame Gagey, who committed suicide in 1911. In 1920, France married for the second time, to Emma Laprévotte. France was a socialist and an outspoken supporter of the 1917 Russian Revolution. In 1920, he gave his support to the newly founded French Communist Party. In his book The Red Lily, France famously wrote, "The law, in its majestic equality, forbids rich and poor alike to sleep under bridges, to beg in the streets, and to steal loaves of bread." Reputation The English writer George Orwell defended France and declared that his work remained very readable, and that "it is unquestionable that he was attacked partly from political motives". Works Poetry , poem published in 1867 in the Gazette rimée. (1873) (The Bride of Corinth) (1876) Prose fiction (Jocasta and the Famished Cat) (1879) (The Crime of Sylvestre Bonnard) (1881) (The Aspirations of Jean Servien) (1882) (Honey-Bee) (1883) (1889) (1890) (Mother of Pearl) (1892) (At the Sign of the Reine Pédauque) (1892) (Our Children: Scenes from the Country and the Town) (1886) illustrated by Louis-Maurice Boutet de Monvel (The Opinions of Jerome Coignard) (1893) (The Red Lily) (1894) (The Well of Saint Clare) (1895) (A Chronicle of Our Own Times) 1: (The Elm-Tree on the Mall)(1897) 2: (The Wicker-Work Woman) (1897) 3: (The Amethyst Ring) (1899) 4: (Monsieur Bergeret in Paris) (1901) Clio (1900) (A Mummer's Tale) (1903) (The White Stone) (1905) (1901) (Penguin Island) (1908) (The Merrie Tales of Jacques Tournebroche) (1908) (The Seven Wives of Bluebeard and Other Marvelous Tales) (1909) Bee The Princess of the Dwarfs (1912) (The Gods Are Athirst) (1912) (The Revolt of the Angels) (1914) (1920) illustrated by Fernand Siméon Memoirs (My Friend's Book) (1885) (1899) (Little Pierre) (1918) (The Bloom of Life) (1922) Plays (1898) Crainquebille (1903) (The Man Who Married A Dumb Wife) (1908) (The Wicker Woman) (1928) Historical biography (The Life of Joan of Arc) (1908) Literary criticism Alfred de Vigny (1869) (1888) (The Latin Genius) (1909) Social criticism (The Garden of Epicurus) (1895) (1902) (1904) (1906) (1915) , in four volumes, (1949, 1953, 1964, 1973) References External links List of Works "Anatole France, Nobel Prize Winner" by Herbert S. Gorman, The New York Times'', 20 November 1921 Correspondence with architect Jean-Paul Oury at Syracuse University Anatole France, his work in audio version 1844 births 1924 deaths Writers from Paris French bibliophiles Collège Stanislas de Paris alumni French fantasy writers French Nobel laureates 19th-century French poets French satirists Members of the Académie Française Nobel laureates in Literature Dreyfusards 19th-century French novelists 20th-century French novelists French socialists French male poets French male novelists 19th-century male writers French historical novelists Burials at Neuilly-sur-Seine community cemetery 19th-century pseudonymous writers 20th-century pseudonymous writers
This article is a demography of the population of Antigua and Barbuda including population density, ethnicity, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. Population According to the 2011 census the estimated resident population of Antigua and Barbuda was 86,295. The estimated population of is (). Vital statistics Structure of the population Ethnic groups The population of Antigua and Barbuda, is predominantly black (91.0%) or mixed (4.4%). 1.9% of the population is white and 0.7% East Indian. There is also a small Amerindian population: 177 in 1991 and 214 in 2001 (0.3% of the total population). The remaining 1.6% of the population includes people from the Middle East (0.6%) and China (0.2%). The 2001 census disclosed that 19,425, or 30 per cent of the total population of Antigua and Barbuda, reported their place of birth as a foreign country. Over 15,000 of these persons were from other Caribbean states, representing 80 of the total foreign born. The main countries of origin were Guyana, Dominica and Jamaica. Approximately 4,500 or 23 per cent of all foreign born came from Guyana, 3,300 or 17 per cent came from Dominica and 2,800 or 14 per cent came from Jamaica. The largest single group from a country outside the region came from the United States. Of the total of 1,715 persons, nine per cent of the foreign born, came from the United States while three per cent and one per cent came from the United Kingdom and Canada, respectively. Many of these are the children of Antiguans and Barbudans who had emigrated to these countries, mainly during the 1980s, and subsequently returned. Other demographics statistics Demographic statistics according to the World Population Review in 2019. One birth every 360 minutes One death every 720 minutes One net migrant every Infinity minutes Net gain of one person every 720 minutes Demographic statistics according to the CIA World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated. Population 99,287 (Feb. 2022 est.) Nationality Noun: Antiguan(s), Barbudan(s) Adjective: Antiguan, Barbudan Ethnic groups African descent 87.3%, mixed 4.7%, Hispanic 2.7%, white 1.6%, other 2.7%, unspecified 0.9% (2011 est.) note: data represent population by ethnic group Age structure 0-14 years: 22.52% (male 11,243/female 10,871) 15-24 years: 16.15% (male 7,891/female 7,961) 25-54 years: 41.68% (male 18,757/female 22,167) 55-64 years: 10.74% (male 4,693/female 5,848) 65 years and over: 8.91% (male 3,736/female 5,012) (2020 est.) Median age Total: 32.7 years Country comparison to the world: 106th Male: 30.7 years Female: 34.4 years (2020 est.) Birth rate 15.3 births/1,000 population (2021 est.) Country comparison to the world: 113th Death rate 5.63 deaths/1,000 population (2021 est.) Country comparison to the world: 177th Total fertility rate 1.96 children born/woman (2021 est.) Country comparison to the world: 117th Net migration rate 2.06 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2021 est.) Country comparison to the world: 49th Population growth rate 1.17% (2021 est.) Country comparison to the world: 84th Population distribution The island of Antigua is home to approximately 97% of the population; nearly the entire population of Barbuda lives in Codrington Languages English (official), Antiguan creole Religions Protestant 68.3% (Anglican 17.6%, Seventh Day Adventist 12.4%, Pentecostal 12.2%, Moravian 8.3%, Methodist 5.6%, Wesleyan Holiness 4.5%, Church of God 4.1%, Baptist 3.6%), Roman Catholic 8.2%, other 12.2%, unspecified 5.5%, none 5.9% (2011 est.) Life expectancy at birth Total population: 77.6 years Country comparison to the world: 92nd male: 75.4 years female: 79.9 years (2021 est.) Urbanization urban population: 24.4% of total population (2020) rate of urbanization: 0.55% annual rate of change (2015-20 est.) Dependency ratios Total dependency ratio: 45.3 (2020 est.) Youth dependency ratio: 31.8 (2020 est.) Elderly dependency ratio: 13.6 (2020 est.) Potential support ratio: 7.4 (2020 est.) Education expenditures 2.5% of GDP (2009) Country comparison to the world: 160th Obesity - adult prevalence rate 18.9% (2016) Country comparison to the world: 113rd Literacy Definition: age 15 and over has completed five or more years of schooling Total population: 99% Male: 98.4% Female: 99.4% (2015) School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education) Total: 15 years Male: 14 years Female: 16 years (2012) References Society of Antigua and Barbuda
The politics of Antigua and Barbuda takes place in a framework of a unitary parliamentary representative democratic monarchy, wherein the sovereign of Antigua and Barbuda is the head of state, appointing a governor-general to act as vice-regal representative in the nation. A prime minister is appointed by the governor-general as the head of government, and of a multi-party system; the prime minister advises the governor-general on the appointment of a Council of Ministers. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the two chambers of the Parliament. The bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (seventeen-member body appointed by the governor-general) and the House of Representatives (seventeen seats; members are elected by proportional representation to serve five-year terms). Antigua and Barbuda has a long history of free elections, three of which have resulted in peaceful changes of government. Since the 1951 general election, the party system has been dominated by the Antigua and Barbuda Labour Party (ABLP), for a long time was dominated by the Bird family, particularly Prime Ministers Vere and Lester Bird. The opposition claimed to be disadvantaged by the ABLP's longstanding monopoly on patronage and its control of the media, especially in the 1999 general election. The opposition United Progressive Party (UPP) won the 2004 election, and its leader Winston Baldwin Spencer was prime minister of Antigua and Barbuda from 2004 to 2014. The elections to the House of Representatives were held on 12 June 2014. The Antigua and Barbuda Labour Party government was elected with fourteen seats. The United Progressive Party had three seats in the House of Representatives. ABLP won 15 of the 17 seats in the 2018 snap election under the leadership of incumbent Prime Minister Gaston Browne. Constitutional safeguards include freedom of speech, press, worship, movement, and association. Antigua and Barbuda is a member of the eastern Caribbean court system. The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature. Jurisprudence is based on English common law. Executive branch Ministers Parliamentary secretaries Permanent secretaries Executive branch leadership As head of state, King Charles III is represented in Antigua and Barbuda by a governor-general who acts on the advice of the prime minister and the cabinet. Legislative branch Antigua and Barbuda elects on national level a legislature. Parliament has two chambers. The House of Representatives has 19 members: 17 members elected for a five-year term in single-seat constituencies, and 2 ex officio members (president and speaker). The Senate has 17 appointed members. The prime minister is the leader of the majority party in the House and conducts affairs of state with the cabinet. The prime minister and the cabinet are responsible to the Parliament. Elections must be held at least every five years but may be called by the prime minister at any time. There are special legislative provisions to account for Barbuda's low population relative to that of Antigua. Barbuda is guaranteed one member of the House of Representatives and two members of the Senate. In addition, there is a Barbuda Council to govern the internal affairs of the island. Political parties and elections Administrative divisions The country is divided into six parishes, Saint George, John, Mary, Paul, Peter, and Phillip which are all on the island of Antigua. Additionally, the islands of Barbuda and Redonda are considered dependencies. Judicial branch Antigua and Barbuda is a member of the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court. This court is headquartered in Saint Lucia, but at least one judge of the Supreme Court resides in Antigua and Barbuda, and presides over the High Court of Justice. The current High Court judges are Jennifer Remy and Keith Thom. Antigua is also a member of the Caribbean Court of Justice, although it has not yet acceded to Part III of the 2001 Agreement Establishing a Caribbean Court of Justice. Its supreme appellate court therefore remains the British Judicial Committee of the Privy Council. Indeed, of the signatories to the Agreement, as of December 2010, only Barbados has replaced appeals to Her Majesty in Council with the Caribbean Court of Justice. In addition to the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court, Antigua and Barbuda has a Magistrates' Court, which deals with lesser civil and criminal cases. Movements Republicanism in Antigua and Barbuda Political pressure groups and leaders Antigua Trades and Labour Union People's Democratic Movement International organisation participation Organisation of African, Caribbean and Pacific States ALBA Caribbean Community Caribbean Development Bank Community of Latin American and Caribbean States Commonwealth of Nations United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean Food and Agriculture Organization Group of 77 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development International Civil Aviation Organization International Criminal Court International Confederation of Free Trade Unions International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement International Fund for Agricultural Development International Finance Corporation International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies International Labour Organization International Monetary Fund International Maritime Organization Intelsat (nonsignatory user) Interpol International Olympic Committee International Telecommunication Union Non-Aligned Movement (observer) Organization of American States Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States OPANAL United Nations United Nations Conference on Trade and Development UNESCO Universal Postal Union World Confederation of Labour World Federation of Trade Unions World Health Organization World Meteorological Organization World Trade Organization References
Telecommunications in Antigua and Barbuda are via media in the telecommunications industry. Telephone Telephones – main lines in use: 37,500 (2006) country comparison to the world: 168 Telephones – mobile cellular: 110,200 (2006) (APUA PCS, Cable & Wireless, Digicel) country comparison to the world: 177 Telephone system: domestic: good automatic telephone system international: 3 fiber optic submarine cables (2 to Saint Kitts and 1 to Guadeloupe); satellite earth station – 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) Radio Radio broadcast stations: AM 4, FM 6, shortwave 0 (2002) Radios: 36,000 (1997) Television Television broadcast stations: 2 (1997) (including ABS-TV) Televisions: 31,000 (1997) Internet Internet Service Providers (ISPs): Cable & Wireless, Antigua Computer Technologies (ACT), Antigua Public Utilities Authority (APUA INET) Internet hosts: 2,215 (2008) country comparison to the world: 140 Internet users: 60,000 (2007) country comparison to the world: 158 Country codes: AG Demographics See also Antigua and Barbuda History of telecommunication List of telecommunications terminology Outline of telecommunication References External links Antigua and Barbuda, SubmarineCableMap.com Antigua and Barbuda Antigua
The Antigua and Barbuda Defence Force (ABDF) is the armed forces of Antigua and Barbuda. The ABDF has responsibility for several different roles: internal security, prevention of drug smuggling, the protection and support of fishing rights, prevention of marine pollution, search and rescue, ceremonial duties, assistance to government programs, provision of relief during natural disasters, assistance in the maintenance of essential services, and support of the police in maintaining law and order. The ABDF is one of the world's smallest militaries, consisting of 245 personnel. It is much better equipped for fulfilling its civil roles, as opposed to providing a deterrence against would-be aggressors or in defending the nation during a war. Organisation The ABDF consists of five major units: Regiment – comprises four line companies and is the infantry unit and fighting arm of the defence force. Service and Support Unit – provides administrative, logistic and engineer support to the rest of the defence force. Coast Guard – the maritime element of the defence force, and is divided into four units: Commanding Officer's Office Engineer Unit Administration Unit Flotilla – the flotilla is the operational part of the Coast Guard, and consists of the following water-craft: 1 Swiftships Shipbuilders 19.81-metre Commercial Cruiser-class patrol boat (P-01 Liberta), in service since 1984 1 SeaArk Boats Dauntless-class patrol boat (P-02 Palmetto), in service since 1995 1 Point-class cutter (P-03 Hermitage), transferred from the U.S. Coast Guard in 1998 1 Defender 380X-class all-weather interceptor (D-8), date of acquisition unknown 2 Boston Whaler 8.23-metre launches (071 and 072), in service since 1988 1 Zodiac Marine & Pool 8.23-metre Hurricane-type rigid-hulled inflatable boat in service since 1998 Air Wing Cadet Corps Former deployments In 1983, fourteen men of the Antigua and Barbuda Defence Force were deployed to Grenada during the Operation Urgent Fury. In 1990, twelve soldiers were sent to Trinidad and Tobago after a failed coup attempt by a radical group against the constitutionally elected government headed by Prime Minister A.N.R. Robinson. In 1995, members of the Antigua and Barbuda Defence Force were deployed in Haiti as a part of Operation Uphold Democracy. Future deployments In 2024, Multinational Security Support Mission in Haiti Alliances – Mercian Regiment See also Regional Security System References External links Antigua and Barbuda Defence Force official website Antigua and Barbuda Defence Force on Facebook Article on the ABDF by Dr Dion Phillips National security of Antigua and Barbuda Military units and formations established in 1981
Armenia is a landlocked country in the South Caucasus region of the Caucasus. The country spans Eastern Europe and West Asia, with cultural ties to both regions. Armenia is bordered on the north and east by Georgia and Azerbaijan and on the south and west by Iran, Azerbaijan's exclave Nakhchivan, and Turkey. The terrain is mostly mountainous and flat, with fast flowing rivers and few forests but with many trees. The climate is highland continental: hot summers and cold winters. The land rises to above sea-level at Mount Aragats. Physical environment Armenia is located in the southern Caucasus, the region southwest of Russia between the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea. Modern Armenia occupies part of historical Armenia, whose ancient centers were in the valley of the Araks River and the region around Lake Van in Turkey. Armenia is bordered on the north by Georgia, on the east by Azerbaijan, on the south by Iran, and on the west by Turkey. Topography and drainage Twenty-five million years ago, a geological upheaval pushed up the Earth's crust to form the Armenian Plateau, creating the complex topography of modern Armenia. The Lesser Caucasus range extends through northern Armenia, runs southeast between Lake Sevan and Azerbaijan, then passes roughly along the Armenian-Azerbaijani border to Iran. Thus situated, the mountains make travel from north to south difficult. Geological turmoil continues in the form of devastating earthquakes, which have plagued Armenia. In December 1988, the second largest city in the republic, Leninakan (now Gyumri), was heavily damaged by a massive quake that killed more than 25,000 people. About half of Armenia's area of approximately has an elevation of at least , and only 3% of the country lies below . The lowest points are in the valleys of the Araks River and the Debed River in the far north, which have elevations of , respectively. Elevations in the Lesser Caucasus vary between . To the southwest of the range is the Armenian Plateau, which slopes southwestward toward the Araks River on the Turkish border. The plateau is masked by intermediate mountain ranges and extinct volcanoes. The largest of these, Mount Aragats, high, is also the highest point in Armenia. Most of the population lives in the western and northwestern parts of the country, where the two major cities, Yerevan and Gyumri, are located. The valleys of the Debed and Akstafa rivers form the chief routes into Armenia from the north as they pass through the mountains. Lake Sevan, across at its widest point and long, is by far the largest lake. It lies above sea level on the plateau and is large. Other main lakes are: Arpi, , Sev, , Akna . Terrain is most rugged in the extreme southeast, which is drained by the Bargushat River, and most moderate in the Araks River valley to the extreme southwest. Most of Armenia is drained by the Araks or its tributary, the Hrazdan, which flows from Lake Sevan. The Araks forms most of Armenia's border with Turkey and Iran, while the Zangezur Mountains form the border between Armenia's southern province of Syunik and Azerbaijan's adjacent Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic. Climate Temperatures in Armenia generally depend upon elevation. Mountain formations block the moderating climatic influences of the Mediterranean Sea and the Black Sea, creating wide seasonal variations with cold snowy winters, and warm to hot summers. On the Armenian Plateau, the mean midwinter temperature is to , and the mean midsummer temperature is to . Average precipitation ranges from per year in the lower Araks River valley to at the highest altitudes. Despite the harshness of winter in most parts (with frosts reaching and lower in Shirak region), the fertility of the plateau's volcanic soil made Armenia one of the world's earliest sites of agricultural activity. Area and boundaries Area:total: 29,743 km2 country comparison to the world: 143 land: 28,203 km2water: 1,540 km2 Area comparative Australia comparative: about one third (33%) the size of Tasmania Canada comparative: greater than half (56%) the size of Nova Scotia Turkey comparative: about a quarter (24%) smaller than the size of Konya Province. United Kingdom comparative: about one third larger (30%) than Wales United States comparative: slightly smaller (7%) than Maryland EU comparative: slightly smaller (8%) than Belgium Land boundaries:total: 1,570 kmborder countries: Azerbaijan 566 km, Azerbaijan-Nakhchivan exclave 221 km, Georgia 219 km, Iran 44 km, Turkey 311 km Coastline: 0 km (landlocked) Elevation extremes:lowest point: 375mhighest point: Mount Aragats 4,090 m Extreme points of Armenia:North: Tavush ()South: Syunik ()West: Shirak ()East: Syunik () Resources and land use Natural resources: deposits of gold, copper, molybdenum, zinc, bauxite Armenia has significant deposits of copper, molybdenum and gold, as well as smaller deposits of zinc, lead and silver. Some copper-molybdenum and polymetallic ore deposits are rich in elements such as bismuth, tellurium, selenium, gallium, indium, thallium, rhenium and germanium. Land use: arable land:4.456 km², 15.8%permanent crops: 1.9%permanent pastures: 4.2%forest (2018): 11.2%other: 31.2% (2011) Irrigated land: 2.084 km2 (2018) Total renewable water resources: 7.77 m³ (2011) Armenia is considered to be a big water “supplier” in the Caspian basin; as a result, the country lacks water, especially in summer when the rate of evaporation exceeds the amount of precipitation. That is the main reason why since ancient times inhabitants have built water reservoirs and irrigation canals in the area. Lake Sevan contains the largest amount of water in the country. Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):total: 2.86 km³/yr (40%/6%/54%)per capita: 929.7 m³/yr (2010) See also Atlas of Armenia Biogeographic regions of Europe Geography of Asia Geography of Europe Geology of Armenia References
Demographics of American Samoa include population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects. American Samoa is an unincorporated territory of the United States located in the South Pacific Ocean. Vital statistics Births and deaths Structure of the population Population statistics The statistics from 1900 to 1950 and every decennial census are from the U.S. Census Bureau. There was no census taken in 1910, but a special census taken in 1912. Beginning with the 1930 Census, Swain Island is included in the population count for American Samoa. The remaining statistics are from the World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated. Population Approximately 55,212, but the Factbook states 49,437 (2020 estimate). About 65% of the population are U.S. nationals, of whom at least 10% are U.S. citizens. Of the foreign-born population, 81% are from Samoa, 9% are from other parts of Oceania, and 9% are from Asia. Age structure 0–14 years: 27.76% (male 7,063/female 6,662) 15–24 years: 18.16% (male 4,521/female 4,458) 25–54 years: 37.49% (male 9,164/female 9,370) 55–64 years: 9.69% (male 2,341/female 2,447) 65 years and over: 6.9% (male 1,580/female 1,831) (2020 est.) Median age total: 27.2 years male: 26.7 years female: 27.7 years (2020 est.) Population growth rate −2.1% (2021 est.) Birth rate 17.19 births/1,000 population (2021 est.) Death rate 6 deaths/1,000 population (2021 est.) Net migration rate −32.18 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2021 est.) Urbanization Urban population: 87.2% of total population (2020) Rate of urbanization: 0.07% annual rate of change (2015-20 est.) Sex ratio At birth: 1.06 male(s)/female 0–14 years: 1.06 male(s)/female 15–24 years: 1.01 male(s)/female 25–54 years: 0.98 male(s)/female 55–64 years: 0.96 male(s)/female 65 years and over: 0.86 male(s)/female Total population: 1 male(s)/female (2020 est.) Infant mortality rate Total: 10.25 deaths/1,000 live births Male: 12.39 deaths/1,000 live births Female: 8 deaths/1,000 live births (2021 est.) Life expectancy at birth Total population: 75.06 years Male: 72.55 years Female: 77.72 years (2021 est.) Total fertility rate 2.28 children born/woman (2021 est.) Nationality Noun: American Samoan(s) (US Nationals) Adjective: American Samoan Ethnic groups Pacific Islander 92.6% (includes Samoan 88.9%, Tongan 2.9%, other 0.8%) Asian 3.6% (includes Filipino 2.2%, other 1.4%) Mixed 2.7% Other 1.2% (2010 est.) Religions Christian 98.3% Other 1% Unaffiliated 0.7% (2010 est.) Major Christian denominations on the island include the Congregational Christian Church in American Samoa, the Catholic Church, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and the Methodist Church of Samoa. Collectively, these churches account for the vast majority of the population. J. Gordon Melton in his book claims that the Methodists, Congregationalists with the London Missionary Society, and Catholics led the first Christian missions to the islands. Other denominations arrived later, beginning in 1895 with the Seventh-day Adventists, various Pentecostals (including the Assemblies of God), Church of the Nazarene, Jehovah's Witnesses, and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The World Factbook 2010 estimate shows the religious affiliations of American Samoa as 98.3% Christian, other 1%, unaffiliated 0.7%. World Christian Database 2010 estimate shows the religious affiliations of American Samoa as 98.3% Christian, 0.7% agnostic, 0.4% Chinese Universalist, 0.3% Buddhist, and 0.3% Baháʼí. According to Pew Research Center, 98.3% of the total population is Christian. Among Christians, 59.5% are Protestant, 19.7% are Catholic and 19.2% are other Christians. A major Protestant church on the island, gathering a substantial part of the local Protestant population, is the Congregational Christian Church in American Samoa, a Reformed denomination in the Congregationalist tradition. , The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints website claims membership of 16,180 or one-quarter of the whole population, with 41 congregations, and 4 family history centers in American Samoa. The Jehovah's Witnesses claim 210 "ministers of the word" and 3 congregations. Languages Native languages include: Samoan 88.6% English 3.9% Tongan 2.7% Other Pacific islander 3% Other 1.8% (2010 est.) English proficiency is very high. References Economy of American Samoa Geography of American Samoa Society of American Samoa American Samoa
Politics of American Samoa takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic dependency, whereby the governor is the head of government, and of a pluriform multi-party system. American Samoa is an unincorporated and unorganized territory of the United States, administered by the Office of Insular Affairs, U.S. Department of the Interior. Its constitution was ratified in 1966 and came into effect in 1967. Executive power is discharged by the governor and the lieutenant governor. Legislative power is vested in the two chambers of the legislature. The party system is based on the United States party system. The judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature. There is also the traditional village politics of the Samoan Islands, the and the , which continues in American Samoa and in independent Samoa, and which interacts across these current boundaries. The is the language and customs, and the the protocols of the (council) and the chiefly system. The and the take place at all levels of the Samoan body politic, from the family, to the village, to the region, to national matters. The (chiefs) are elected by consensus within the of the extended family and village(s) concerned. The and the (which is itself made of ) decide on distribution of family exchanges and tenancy of communal lands. The majority of lands in American Samoa and independent Samoa are communal. A can represent a small family group or a great extended family that reaches across islands, and to both American Samoa and independent Samoa. Government The government of American Samoa is defined under the Constitution of American Samoa. As an unincorporated territory, the Ratification Act of 1929 vested all civil, judicial, and military powers in the president, who in turn delegated authority to the secretary of the interior in . The secretary promulgated the Constitution of American Samoa which was approved by a constitutional convention of the people of American Samoa and a majority of the voters of American Samoa voting at the 1966 election, and came into effect in 1967. The governor of American Samoa is the head of government and along with the lieutenant governor of American Samoa is elected on the same ticket by popular vote for four-year terms. The legislative power is vested in the American Samoa Fono, which has two chambers. The House of Representatives has 21 members serving two-year terms, being 20 representatives popularly elected from various districts and one non-voting delegate from Swains Island elected in a public meeting. The Senate has 18 members, elected for four-year terms by and from the chiefs of the islands. The judiciary of American Samoa is composed of the High Court of American Samoa, a District Court, and village courts. The High Court is led by a chief justice and an associate justice, appointed by the secretary of the interior. Other judges are appointed by the governor upon the recommendation of the chief justice and confirmed by the Senate. Elections International organization participation United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (associate) Interpol (subbureau) International Olympic Committee Pacific Community See also Political party strength in American Samoa American Samoa's at-large congressional district References
The economy of American Samoa is a traditional Polynesian economy in which more than 90% of the land is communally owned. Economic activity is strongly linked to the United States, with which American Samoa conducts the great bulk of its foreign trade. Tuna fishing and processing plants are the backbone of the private sector, with canned tuna being the primary export. Transfers from the U.S. federal government add substantially to American Samoa's economic well-being. Attempts by the government to develop a larger and broader economy are restrained by Samoa's remote location, its limited transportation, and its devastating hurricanes. Statistics GDP: purchasing power parity – $537 million (2007 est.) country comparison to the world: 210 GDP (official exchange rate): $462.2 million (2005) GDP – real growth rate: 3% (2003) country comparison to the world: 139 GDP – per capita: purchasing power parity – $7,874 (2008) country comparison to the world: 120 GDP – composition by sector: agriculture: NA% industry: NA% services: NA% (2002) Labor Force: 17,630 (2005) country comparison to the world: 203 Labor force – by occupation: government 33%, tuna canneries 34%, other 33% (1990) Unemployment rate: 23.8% (2010) country comparison to the world: 175 Population below poverty line: NA% (2002 est.) Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%: NA% highest 10%: NA% Inflation rate (consumer prices): NA% (2003 est.) Budget: revenues: $155.4 million (37% in local revenue and 63% in US grants) expenditures: $183.6 million (FY07) Agriculture – products: bananas, coconuts, vegetables, taro, breadfruit, yams, copra, pineapples, papayas; dairy products, livestock Industries: tuna canneries (largely dependent on foreign fishing vessels), handicrafts Industrial production growth rate: NA% Electricity – production: 180 GWh (2006) country comparison to the world: 179 Electricity – production by source: fossil fuel: 100% hydro: 0% nuclear: 0% other: 0% (2001) Electricity – consumption: 167.4 GWh (2006) country comparison to the world: 179 Electricity – exports: 0 kWh (2007) Electricity – imports: 0 kWh (2007) Oil – production: (2007 est.) country comparison to the world: 209 Oil – consumption: (604 m³/d), 2006 country comparison to the world: 170 Oil – exports: (2005) country comparison to the world: 142 Oil – imports: (2005) country comparison to the world: 166 Natural gas – production: 0 cu m (2007) country comparison to the world: 208 Natural gas – consumption: 0 cu m (2007) country comparison to the world: 207 Natural gas – exports: 0 cu m (2007) country comparison to the world: 202 Natural gas – imports: 0 cu m (2007) country comparison to the world: 201 Natural gas – proved reserves: 0 cu m (2006) country comparison to the world: 205 Exports: $445.6 million (2004) country comparison to the world: 167 Exports – commodities: canned tuna 93% (2004) Exports – partners: Indonesia 70%, Australia 6.7%, Japan 6.7%, Samoa 6.7% (2002) Imports: $308.8 million (2004) country comparison to the world: 195 Imports – commodities: materials for canneries 56%, food 8%, petroleum products 7%, machinery and parts 6% (2004) Imports – partners: Australia 36.6%, New Zealand 20.3%, South Korea 16.3%, Mauritius 4.9% (2002) Debt – external: $NA (2002 est.) Economic aid – recipient: $NA; note – important financial support from the US, more than $40 million in 1994 Currency: US dollar (USD) Currency code: USD Exchange rates: US dollar is used Fiscal year: 1 October – 30 September References External links http://www.classbrain.com/art_cr/publish/american_samoa_economy.shtml
America's National Game is a book by Albert Spalding, published in 1911, that details the early history of the sport of baseball. It is one of the defining books in the early formative years of modern baseball. Much of the story is told first-hand; since the 1850s, Spalding had been involved in the game, first as a pitcher and later a manager and club owner. Later he branched out to become a leading manufacturer of sporting goods. In addition to his personal recollections, he had access to the records of Henry Chadwick, the game's first statistician and archivist. Much of his early history of the game is considered to be reliable. Spalding was, however, said to aggrandize his role in the major moments in baseball's history. Early editions of the book include quality full-page photo-plates of important players. See also History of baseball References 1911 non-fiction books Baseball books
The Atlantic Ocean is the second largest of the world's oceans, that separates the old world from the new world. Atlantic may also refer to: Places In Canada Atlantic, Nova Scotia Atlantic Canada In the United States Atlantic, Iowa Atlantic, Massachusetts Atlantic, North Carolina, an unincorporated community in eastern Carteret County Atlantic, Pennsylvania Atlantic, Seattle, a neighborhood in Washington state Atlantic, Virginia Atlantic City, New Jersey Atlantic County, New Jersey Atlantic Peak (Colorado), a mountain Art, entertainment, and media Companies and labels Atlantic Books, an independent British publishing house Atlantic Monthly Press, an American publishing house Atlantic Entertainment Group, a defunct movie studio company Atlantic FM, a former radio station serving Cornwall, United Kingdom Atlantic Records, a record company Music The Atlantics, an Australian surf rock band formed in the early 1960s Albums Atlantic (Dufresne album) Atlantic (Theatre album) Songs "Atlantic" (song), by Keane "Atlantic", a song by Björk from Vessel (DVD) "Atlantic", a song by Thrice from Vheissu Other art, entertainment, and media Atlantic (film), a 1929 black and white British film The Atlantic, an American magazine founded as The Atlantic Monthly in 1857 Atlantic., a 2014 Dutch film Atlantic (2015 film), an Irish documentary film, awarded Best Irish Documentary at the 2016 Dublin International Film Festival Enterprises and organizations Atlantic (cinema), a movie theater in Warsaw, Poland Atlantic (toy company), a defunct Italian toy manufacturer Atlantic (supermarkets), a defunct supermarket chain in Greece Atlantic Broadband, a cable company in Massachusetts Atlantic City Electric, a division of Elexon supplying electricity in New Jersey Atlantic LNG, a liquefied natural gas producing company based in Trinidad and Tobago Atlantic Petroleum, a former oil company in the United States Atlantic Petroleum (Faroe Islands), an oil and gas production company Atlantic Philanthropies, a defunct private foundation Atlantic Superstore, a Canadian supermarket chain Atlantic Technological University, north-western Ireland Atlantic University, Virginia Beach, Virginia Groupe Atlantic, a French climate control engineering company Sports Atlantic Championship, developmental open-wheel racing series in North America Atlantic League of Professional Baseball, an American professional baseball league Structures Atlantic Building or Edificio Atlantic, a condominium building in Havana, Cuba The Atlantic (Atlanta), a skyscraper in Atlanta, Georgia, United States Transportation Airlines Air Atlantic, a Canadian airline Atlantic Airways, a Faroese airline company Aircraft Breguet Atlantic, a French long-range maritime patrol aircraft (1961) Motor vehicles Atlantic (1921 automobile), a defunct automobile company Austin Atlantic, a British car produced by the Austin Motor Company from 1949 to 1952 Fisker Atlantic, a 2012 plug-in electric concept car Railroads and trains Atlantic (locomotive), name of an early steam-powered locomotive of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Atlantic station (Los Angeles Metro) Atlantic station (Staten Island Railway) Atlantic (train), a named passenger train operated by Canadian Pacific Railway and later Via Rail Atlantic, a type of steam locomotive with a 4-4-2 wheel arrangement (UIC classification 2B1) Ships , any one of several vessels by that name Atlantic (yacht), a three-masted gaff-rigged schooner Atlantic 85-class lifeboats, lifeboats that serve the shores of the United Kingdom and Ireland as a part of the RNLI inshore fleet Other uses Atlantic (period) of palaeoclimatology Atlantic languages (formerly West Atlantic), a language family in West Africa Atlantic (horse), British-bred Thoroughbred racehorse of the 1870s See also Atlantik (disambiguation) Atlantique (disambiguation) Atlantic Beach (disambiguation) Atlantic Bridge (disambiguation) Atlantic City (disambiguation)
An algebraic number is a number that is a root of a non-zero polynomial in one variable with integer (or, equivalently, rational) coefficients. For example, the golden ratio, , is an algebraic number, because it is a root of the polynomial . That is, it is a value for x for which the polynomial evaluates to zero. As another example, the complex number is algebraic because it is a root of . All integers and rational numbers are algebraic, as are all roots of integers. Real and complex numbers that are not algebraic, such as and , are called transcendental numbers. The set of algebraic numbers is countably infinite and has measure zero in the Lebesgue measure as a subset of the uncountable complex numbers. In that sense, almost all complex numbers are transcendental. Examples All rational numbers are algebraic. Any rational number, expressed as the quotient of an integer and a (non-zero) natural number , satisfies the above definition, because is the root of a non-zero polynomial, namely . Quadratic irrational numbers, irrational solutions of a quadratic polynomial with integer coefficients , , and , are algebraic numbers. If the quadratic polynomial is monic (), the roots are further qualified as quadratic integers. Gaussian integers, complex numbers for which both and are integers, are also quadratic integers. This is because and are the two roots of the quadratic . A constructible number can be constructed from a given unit length using a straightedge and compass. It includes all quadratic irrational roots, all rational numbers, and all numbers that can be formed from these using the basic arithmetic operations and the extraction of square roots. (By designating cardinal directions for +1, −1, +, and −, complex numbers such as are considered constructible.) Any expression formed from algebraic numbers using any combination of the basic arithmetic operations and extraction of th roots gives another algebraic number. Polynomial roots that cannot be expressed in terms of the basic arithmetic operations and extraction of th roots (such as the roots of ). That happens with many but not all polynomials of degree 5 or higher. Values of trigonometric functions of rational multiples of (except when undefined): for example, , , and satisfy . This polynomial is irreducible over the rationals and so the three cosines are conjugate algebraic numbers. Likewise, , , , and satisfy the irreducible polynomial , and so are conjugate algebraic integers. Some but not all irrational numbers are algebraic: The numbers and are algebraic since they are roots of polynomials and , respectively. The golden ratio is algebraic since it is a root of the polynomial . The numbers and e are not algebraic numbers (see the Lindemann–Weierstrass theorem). Properties If a polynomial with rational coefficients is multiplied through by the least common denominator, the resulting polynomial with integer coefficients has the same roots. This shows that an algebraic number can be equivalently defined as a root of a polynomial with either integer or rational coefficients. Given an algebraic number, there is a unique monic polynomial with rational coefficients of least degree that has the number as a root. This polynomial is called its minimal polynomial. If its minimal polynomial has degree , then the algebraic number is said to be of degree . For example, all rational numbers have degree 1, and an algebraic number of degree 2 is a quadratic irrational. The algebraic numbers are dense in the reals. This follows from the fact they contain the rational numbers, which are dense in the reals themselves. The set of algebraic numbers is countable (enumerable), and therefore its Lebesgue measure as a subset of the complex numbers is 0 (essentially, the algebraic numbers take up no space in the complex numbers). That is to say, "almost all" real and complex numbers are transcendental. All algebraic numbers are computable and therefore definable and arithmetical. For real numbers and , the complex number is algebraic if and only if both and are algebraic. Field The sum, difference, product and quotient (if the denominator is nonzero) of two algebraic numbers is again algebraic, as can be demonstrated by using the resultant, and algebraic numbers thus form a field (sometimes denoted by , but that usually denotes the adele ring). Every root of a polynomial equation whose coefficients are algebraic numbers is again algebraic. That can be rephrased by saying that the field of algebraic numbers is algebraically closed. In fact, it is the smallest algebraically-closed field containing the rationals and so it is called the algebraic closure of the rationals. The set of real algebraic numbers itself forms a field. Related fields Numbers defined by radicals Any number that can be obtained from the integers using a finite number of additions, subtractions, multiplications, divisions, and taking (possibly complex) th roots where is a positive integer are algebraic. The converse, however, is not true: there are algebraic numbers that cannot be obtained in this manner. These numbers are roots of polynomials of degree 5 or higher, a result of Galois theory (see Quintic equations and the Abel–Ruffini theorem). For example, the equation: has a unique real root that cannot be expressed in terms of only radicals and arithmetic operations. Closed-form number Algebraic numbers are all numbers that can be defined explicitly or implicitly in terms of polynomials, starting from the rational numbers. One may generalize this to "closed-form numbers", which may be defined in various ways. Most broadly, all numbers that can be defined explicitly or implicitly in terms of polynomials, exponentials, and logarithms are called "elementary numbers", and these include the algebraic numbers, plus some transcendental numbers. Most narrowly, one may consider numbers explicitly defined in terms of polynomials, exponentials, and logarithms – this does not include all algebraic numbers, but does include some simple transcendental numbers such as or ln 2. Algebraic integers An algebraic integer is an algebraic number that is a root of a polynomial with integer coefficients with leading coefficient 1 (a monic polynomial). Examples of algebraic integers are and Therefore, the algebraic integers constitute a proper superset of the integers, as the latter are the roots of monic polynomials for all . In this sense, algebraic integers are to algebraic numbers what integers are to rational numbers. The sum, difference and product of algebraic integers are again algebraic integers, which means that the algebraic integers form a ring. The name algebraic integer comes from the fact that the only rational numbers that are algebraic integers are the integers, and because the algebraic integers in any number field are in many ways analogous to the integers. If is a number field, its ring of integers is the subring of algebraic integers in , and is frequently denoted as . These are the prototypical examples of Dedekind domains. Special classes Algebraic solution Gaussian integer Eisenstein integer Quadratic irrational number Fundamental unit Root of unity Gaussian period Pisot–Vijayaraghavan number Salem number Notes References
In mathematics, an automorphism is an isomorphism from a mathematical object to itself. It is, in some sense, a symmetry of the object, and a way of mapping the object to itself while preserving all of its structure. The set of all automorphisms of an object forms a group, called the automorphism group. It is, loosely speaking, the symmetry group of the object. Definition In the context of abstract algebra, a mathematical object is an algebraic structure such as a group, ring, or vector space. An automorphism is simply a bijective homomorphism of an object with itself. (The definition of a homomorphism depends on the type of algebraic structure; see, for example, group homomorphism, ring homomorphism, and linear operator.) The identity morphism (identity mapping) is called the trivial automorphism in some contexts. Respectively, other (non-identity) automorphisms are called nontrivial automorphisms. The exact definition of an automorphism depends on the type of "mathematical object" in question and what, precisely, constitutes an "isomorphism" of that object. The most general setting in which these words have meaning is an abstract branch of mathematics called category theory. Category theory deals with abstract objects and morphisms between those objects. In category theory, an automorphism is an endomorphism (i.e., a morphism from an object to itself) which is also an isomorphism (in the categorical sense of the word, meaning there exists a right and left inverse endomorphism). This is a very abstract definition since, in category theory, morphisms are not necessarily functions and objects are not necessarily sets. In most concrete settings, however, the objects will be sets with some additional structure and the morphisms will be functions preserving that structure. Automorphism group If the automorphisms of an object form a set (instead of a proper class), then they form a group under composition of morphisms. This group is called the automorphism group of . Closure Composition of two automorphisms is another automorphism. Associativity It is part of the definition of a category that composition of morphisms is associative. Identity The identity is the identity morphism from an object to itself, which is an automorphism. Inverses By definition every isomorphism has an inverse that is also an isomorphism, and since the inverse is also an endomorphism of the same object it is an automorphism. The automorphism group of an object X in a category C is denoted AutC(X), or simply Aut(X) if the category is clear from context. Examples In set theory, an arbitrary permutation of the elements of a set X is an automorphism. The automorphism group of X is also called the symmetric group on X. In elementary arithmetic, the set of integers, Z, considered as a group under addition, has a unique nontrivial automorphism: negation. Considered as a ring, however, it has only the trivial automorphism. Generally speaking, negation is an automorphism of any abelian group, but not of a ring or field. A group automorphism is a group isomorphism from a group to itself. Informally, it is a permutation of the group elements such that the structure remains unchanged. For every group G there is a natural group homomorphism G → Aut(G) whose image is the group Inn(G) of inner automorphisms and whose kernel is the center of G. Thus, if G has trivial center it can be embedded into its own automorphism group. In linear algebra, an endomorphism of a vector space V is a linear operator V → V. An automorphism is an invertible linear operator on V. When the vector space is finite-dimensional, the automorphism group of V is the same as the general linear group, GL(V). (The algebraic structure of all endomorphisms of V is itself an algebra over the same base field as V, whose invertible elements precisely consist of GL(V).) A field automorphism is a bijective ring homomorphism from a field to itself. In the cases of the rational numbers (Q) and the real numbers (R) there are no nontrivial field automorphisms. Some subfields of R have nontrivial field automorphisms, which however do not extend to all of R (because they cannot preserve the property of a number having a square root in R). In the case of the complex numbers, C, there is a unique nontrivial automorphism that sends R into R: complex conjugation, but there are infinitely (uncountably) many "wild" automorphisms (assuming the axiom of choice). Field automorphisms are important to the theory of field extensions, in particular Galois extensions. In the case of a Galois extension L/K the subgroup of all automorphisms of L fixing K pointwise is called the Galois group of the extension. The automorphism group of the quaternions (H) as a ring are the inner automorphisms, by the Skolem–Noether theorem: maps of the form . This group is isomorphic to SO(3), the group of rotations in 3-dimensional space. The automorphism group of the octonions (O) is the exceptional Lie group G2. In graph theory an automorphism of a graph is a permutation of the nodes that preserves edges and non-edges. In particular, if two nodes are joined by an edge, so are their images under the permutation. In geometry, an automorphism may be called a motion of the space. Specialized terminology is also used: In metric geometry an automorphism is a self-isometry. The automorphism group is also called the isometry group. In the category of Riemann surfaces, an automorphism is a biholomorphic map (also called a conformal map), from a surface to itself. For example, the automorphisms of the Riemann sphere are Möbius transformations. An automorphism of a differentiable manifold M is a diffeomorphism from M to itself. The automorphism group is sometimes denoted Diff(M). In topology, morphisms between topological spaces are called continuous maps, and an automorphism of a topological space is a homeomorphism of the space to itself, or self-homeomorphism (see homeomorphism group). In this example it is not sufficient for a morphism to be bijective to be an isomorphism. History One of the earliest group automorphisms (automorphism of a group, not simply a group of automorphisms of points) was given by the Irish mathematician William Rowan Hamilton in 1856, in his icosian calculus, where he discovered an order two automorphism, writing: so that is a new fifth root of unity, connected with the former fifth root by relations of perfect reciprocity. Inner and outer automorphisms In some categories—notably groups, rings, and Lie algebras—it is possible to separate automorphisms into two types, called "inner" and "outer" automorphisms. In the case of groups, the inner automorphisms are the conjugations by the elements of the group itself. For each element a of a group G, conjugation by a is the operation given by (or a−1ga; usage varies). One can easily check that conjugation by a is a group automorphism. The inner automorphisms form a normal subgroup of Aut(G), denoted by Inn(G); this is called Goursat's lemma. The other automorphisms are called outer automorphisms. The quotient group is usually denoted by Out(G); the non-trivial elements are the cosets that contain the outer automorphisms. The same definition holds in any unital ring or algebra where a is any invertible element. For Lie algebras the definition is slightly different. See also Antiautomorphism Automorphism (in Sudoku puzzles) Characteristic subgroup Endomorphism ring Frobenius automorphism Morphism Order automorphism (in order theory). Relation-preserving automorphism Fractional Fourier transform References External links Automorphism at Encyclopaedia of Mathematics Morphisms Abstract algebra Symmetry
APL is an abbreviation, acronym, or initialism that may refer to: Science and technology 132524 APL, an asteroid Abductor pollicis longus muscle, in the human hand Acute promyelocytic leukemia, a subtype of acute myelogenous leukemia Applied Physics Letters, a physics journal Nampula Airport (IATA airport code: APL), in Mozambique Computers .apl, the file extension of the Monkey's Audio metadata file AMD Performance Library, renamed Framewave, a computer compiler library APL (programming language), an array-based programming language APL (codepage), the character set for programming in APL Address Prefix List, a DNS record type Address programming language, an early high-level programming language developed in the Soviet Union Advanced Physical Layer, an extension of Ethernet 10BASE-T1L for field devices Alexa Presentation Language, a language for developing Amazon Alexa skills Software licences Adaptive Public License, an Open Source license from the University of Victoria, Canada AROS Public License, a license of AROS Research Operating System Arphic Public License, a free font license Organizations APL (shipping company), a Singapore-based container and shipping company Aden Protectorate Levies, a militia force for local defense of the Aden Protectorate Advanced Production and Loading, a Norwegian marine engineering company formed in 1993 Afghanistan Premier League, an Afghan Twenty20 cricket league Afghan Premier League, a men's football league in Afghanistan American Patriot League, a proposed American football spring league American Premiere League, a Twenty20 cricket league in the US American President Lines, a container transportation and shipping company American Protective League, a World War I-era pro-war organization Applied Physics Laboratory, at Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory at the University of Washington Association of Pension Lawyers, UK Aurora Public Library (disambiguation) Australian Professional Leagues, an Australian soccer governing body Irish Anti-Partition League, a Northern Ireland political organisation Other uses apl.de.ap (born 1974), pseudonym of Allan Pineda Lindo, Filipino-American musician Auxiliary Personal Living, a US Navy hull classification for barracks craft; see
In mathematics, a binary relation on a set is antisymmetric if there is no pair of distinct elements of each of which is related by to the other. More formally, is antisymmetric precisely if for all or equivalently, The definition of antisymmetry says nothing about whether actually holds or not for any . An antisymmetric relation on a set may be reflexive (that is, for all ), irreflexive (that is, for no ), or neither reflexive nor irreflexive. A relation is asymmetric if and only if it is both antisymmetric and irreflexive. Examples The divisibility relation on the natural numbers is an important example of an antisymmetric relation. In this context, antisymmetry means that the only way each of two numbers can be divisible by the other is if the two are, in fact, the same number; equivalently, if and are distinct and is a factor of then cannot be a factor of For example, 12 is divisible by 4, but 4 is not divisible by 12. The usual order relation on the real numbers is antisymmetric: if for two real numbers and both inequalities and hold, then and must be equal. Similarly, the subset order on the subsets of any given set is antisymmetric: given two sets and if every element in also is in and every element in is also in then and must contain all the same elements and therefore be equal: A real-life example of a relation that is typically antisymmetric is "paid the restaurant bill of" (understood as restricted to a given occasion). Typically, some people pay their own bills, while others pay for their spouses or friends. As long as no two people pay each other's bills, the relation is antisymmetric. Properties Partial and total orders are antisymmetric by definition. A relation can be both symmetric and antisymmetric (in this case, it must be coreflexive), and there are relations which are neither symmetric nor antisymmetric (for example, the "preys on" relation on biological species). Antisymmetry is different from asymmetry: a relation is asymmetric if and only if it is antisymmetric and irreflexive. See also Symmetry in mathematics References nLab antisymmetric relation Binary relations
Athene or Athena is the shrewd companion of heroes and the goddess of heroic endeavour in Greek mythology. Athene may also refer to: 881 Athene, a main-belt asteroid Athene (bird), a genus of small owls Athene (Cynuria), a town in ancient Cynuria, Greece Athene Glacier, a glacier in Antarctica HMS Athene, an aircraft transport USS Athene (AKA-22), an Artemis-class attack cargo ship Bachir Boumaaza or Athene (born 1980), Belgian YouTube personality and social activist Athene (research center), stylized as ATHENE, an IT security research institute in Darmstadt, Germany Athene, an insurance company acquired by Apollo Global Management People with the given name Athene Seyler (1889–1990), English actress Athene Donald (born 1953), British physicist See also Altena (disambiguation) Atena (disambiguation) Athen (disambiguation) Athena (disambiguation) Athens (disambiguation)
Throughout history, forms of art have gone through periodic abrupt changes called artistic revolutions. Movements have come to an end to be replaced by a new movement markedly different in striking ways. Scientific and technological 1 Not all artistic revolutions were political. Sometimes, science and technological innovations have brought about unforeseen transformations in the works of artists. The stylistic revolution known as Impressionism, by painters eager to more accurately capture the changing colors of light and shadow, is inseparable from discoveries and inventions in the mid-19th century in which the style was born. Michel Eugène Chevreul, a French chemist hired as director of dyes at a French tapestry works, began to investigate the optical nature of color in order to improve color in fabrics. Chevreul realized It was the eye, and not the dye, that had the greatest influence on color, and from this, he revolutionized color theory by grasping what came to be called the law of simultaneous contrast: that colors mutually influence one another when juxtaposed, each imposing its own complementary color on the other. The French painter Eugène Delacroix, who had been experimenting with what he called broken tones, embraced Chevreul's book, The Law of Contrast of Color (1839) with its explanations of how juxtaposed colors can enhance or diminish each other, and his exploration of all the visible colors of the spectrum. Inspired by Chevreul's 1839 treatise, Delacroix passed his enthusiasm on to the young artists who were inspired by him. It was Chevreul who led the Impressionists to grasp that they should apply separate brushstrokes of pure color to a canvas and allow the viewer's eye to combine them optically. They were aided greatly in this by innovations in oil paint itself. Since the Renaissance, painters had to grind pigment, add oil and thus create their own paints; these time-consuming paints also quickly dried out, making studio painting a necessity for large works, and limiting painters to mix one or two colors at a time and fill in an entire area using just that one color before it dried out. In 1841, a little-known American painter named John G. Rand invented a simple improvement without which the Impressionist movement could not have occurred: the small, flexible tin tube with removable cap in which oil paints could be stored. Oil paints kept in such tubes stayed moist, usable, and portable. For the first time since the Renaissance, painters were not trapped by the time frame of how quickly oil paint dried. Paints in tubes could be easily loaded up and carried out into the real world, to directly observe the play of color and natural light, in shadow and movement, to paint in the moment. Selling the oil paint in tubes also brought about the arrival of dazzling new pigments - chrome yellow, cadmium blue - invented by 19th century industrial chemists. The tubes freed the Impressionists to paint quickly, and across an entire canvas, rather than carefully delineated single-color sections at a time; in short, to sketch directly in oil - racing across the canvas in every color that came to hand and thus inspiring their name of "impressionists" - since such speedy, bold brushwork and dabs of separate colors made contemporary critics think their paintings were mere impressions, not finished paintings, which were to have no visible brush marks at all, seamless under layers of varnish. Pierre-Auguste Renoir said, “Without colors in tubes, there would be no Cézanne, no Monet, no Pissarro, and no Impressionism.” Finally, the careful, hyper-realistic techniques of French neo-classicism were seen as stiff and lifeless when compared to the remarkable new vision of the world as seen through the new invention of photography by the mid-1850s. It was not merely that the increasing ability of this new invention, particularly by the French inventor Daguerre, made the realism of the painted image redundant as he deliberately competed in the Paris diorama with large-scale historical paintings. The neo-classical subject matter, limited by Academic tradition to Greek and Roman legends, historical battles and Biblical stories, seemed oppressively clichéd and limited to artists eager to explore the actual world in front of their own eyes revealed by the camera - daily life, candid groupings of everyday people doing simple things, Paris itself, rural landscapes and most particularly the play of captured light - not the imaginary lionizing of unseen past events. Early photographs influenced Impressionist style by its use of asymmetry, cropping and most obviously the blurring of motion, as inadvertently captured in the very slow speeds of early photography. Edgar Degas, Claude Monet, Pierre-Auguste Renoir - in their framing, use of color, light and shadow, subject matter - put these innovations to work to create a new language of visual beauty and meaning. Faking revolution: the CIA and Abstract Expressionism Their initial break with realism into an exploration of light, color and the nature of paint was brought to an ultimate conclusion by the abstract expressionists who broke away from recognizable content of any kind into works of pure shape, color and painterliness which emerged at the end of the Second World War. At first thought of as primitive, inept works - as in "my four year old could do that - these works were misunderstood and neglected until given critical and support by the rise of art journalists and critics who championed their work in the 1940s and 50s, expressing the power of such work in aesthetic terms the artists themselves seldom used, or even understood. Jackson Pollock who pioneered splatter painting, dispensing with a paint brush altogether, soon became lionized as the angry young man in a large spread in Life magazine. In fact, in a deliberate, secret and successful effort to separate artistic revolutions from political ones, abstract expressionists like Pollock, Robert Motherwell, Willem de Kooning and Mark Rothko, while seemingly difficult, pathbreaking artists, were in fact secretly supported for twenty years by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) in a Cold War policy begun in 1947 to prove that the United States could foster more artistic freedom than the Soviet bloc. "It was recognized that Abstract Expressionism was the kind of art that made Socialist Realism look even more stylized and rigid and confined than it was," said former CIA case worker Donald Jameson, who finally broke the silence on this program in 1995. Ironically, the covert CIA support for these radical works was required because an attempt to use government funds for a European tour of these works during the Truman administration led to a public uproar in conservative McCarthy-era America, with Truman famously remarking, "If that's art, I'm a Hottentot." Thus, the program was hidden under the guise of fabricated foundations and the support of wealthy patrons who were actually using CIA funds, not their own, to sponsor traveling exhibitions of American abstract expressionists all over the world, publish books and articles praising them and to purchase and exhibit abstract expressionist works in major American and British museums. Thomas Braden, in charge of these cultural programs for the CIA, in the early years of the Cold War, had formerly been executive secretary of the Museum of Modern Art, America's leading institution for 20th century art and the charges of collusion between the two echoed for many years after this program was revealed, though most of the artists involved had no idea they were being used in this way and were furious when they found out. See also Cultural movement References Art history Revolutions by type
Atomic may refer to: Of or relating to the atom, the smallest particle of a chemical element that retains its chemical properties Atomic physics, the study of the atom Atomic Age, also known as the "Atomic Era" Atomic scale, distances comparable to the dimensions of an atom Atom (order theory), in mathematics Atomic (cocktail), a champagne cocktail Atomic (magazine), an Australian computing and technology magazine Atomic Skis, an Austrian ski producer Music Atomic (band), a Norwegian jazz quintet Atomic (Lit album), 2001 Atomic (Mogwai album), 2016 Atomic, an album by Rockets, 1982 Atomic (EP), by , 2013 "Atomic" (song), by Blondie, 1979 "Atomic", a song by Tiger Army from Tiger Army III: Ghost Tigers Rise See also Atom (disambiguation) Atomicity (database systems) Nuclear (disambiguation) Atomism, philosophy about the basic building blocks of reality Atomic City (disambiguation) Atomic formula, a formula without subformulas Atomic number, the number of protons found in the nucleus of an atom Atomic chess, a chess variant Atomic coffee machine, a 1950s stovetop coffee machine Atomic operation, in computer science Atomic TV, a channel launched in 1997 in Poland Nuclear power Nuclear weapon
Asa may refer to: People and fictional characters Asa (name), a given name, including a list of people and fictional characters so named Asa people, an ethnic group based in Tanzania Aṣa, Nigerian-French singer, songwriter, and recording artist Bukola Elemide (born 1982) Asa (rapper), Finnish rapper Matti Salo (born 1980) Biblical and mythological figures Asa of Judah, third king of the Kingdom of Judah and the fifth king of the House of David Ása or Æsir, Norse gods Places Asa, Hardoi Uttar Pradesh, India, a village Asu, South Khorasan, Iran, also spelled Asa, a village Asa, Kwara State, Nigeria, a local government area Asa River (Japan), a tributary of the Tama River in Tokyo, Japan Asa (Kazakhstan), a river Asa River (Venezuela) - see List of rivers in Venezuela Other uses Asa (album), the sixth studio album by the German Viking metal band Falkenbach Asa (raga), a peculiar musical raga in Gurmat Sangeet tradition ASA carriage control characters, simple printing command characters used to control the movement of paper through line printers Asa language, spoken by the Asa people of Tanzania Asa Station, a railway station in San'yō-Onoda, Yamaguchi, Japan Asa (railway station), Jambyl Region, Kazakhstan Naboot, also called asa, a quarterstaff constructed of palm wood or rattan Asha, romanized as aṣ̌a, a Zoroastrian concept "Asa", a song by Kitt Wakeley featuring Starr Parodi from An Adoption Story, 2022 See also ASA (disambiguation) Åsa (disambiguation) Aasa (disambiguation) Asia (disambiguation) Aza (disambiguation)
Atomic physics is the field of physics that studies atoms as an isolated system of electrons and an atomic nucleus. Atomic physics typically refers to the study of atomic structure and the interaction between atoms. It is primarily concerned with the way in which electrons are arranged around the nucleus and the processes by which these arrangements change. This comprises ions, neutral atoms and, unless otherwise stated, it can be assumed that the term atom includes ions. The term atomic physics can be associated with nuclear power and nuclear weapons, due to the synonymous use of atomic and nuclear in standard English. Physicists distinguish between atomic physics—which deals with the atom as a system consisting of a nucleus and electrons—and nuclear physics, which studies nuclear reactions and special properties of atomic nuclei. As with many scientific fields, strict delineation can be highly contrived and atomic physics is often considered in the wider context of atomic, molecular, and optical physics. Physics research groups are usually so classified. Isolated atoms Atomic physics primarily considers atoms in isolation. Atomic models will consist of a single nucleus that may be surrounded by one or more bound electrons. It is not concerned with the formation of molecules (although much of the physics is identical), nor does it examine atoms in a solid state as condensed matter. It is concerned with processes such as ionization and excitation by photons or collisions with atomic particles. While modelling atoms in isolation may not seem realistic, if one considers atoms in a gas or plasma then the time-scales for atom-atom interactions are huge in comparison to the atomic processes that are generally considered. This means that the individual atoms can be treated as if each were in isolation, as the vast majority of the time they are. By this consideration, atomic physics provides the underlying theory in plasma physics and atmospheric physics, even though both deal with very large numbers of atoms. Electronic configuration Electrons form notional shells around the nucleus. These are normally in a ground state but can be excited by the absorption of energy from light (photons), magnetic fields, or interaction with a colliding particle (typically ions or other electrons). Electrons that populate a shell are said to be in a bound state. The energy necessary to remove an electron from its shell (taking it to infinity) is called the binding energy. Any quantity of energy absorbed by the electron in excess of this amount is converted to kinetic energy according to the conservation of energy. The atom is said to have undergone the process of ionization. If the electron absorbs a quantity of energy less than the binding energy, it will be transferred to an excited state. After a certain time, the electron in an excited state will "jump" (undergo a transition) to a lower state. In a neutral atom, the system will emit a photon of the difference in energy, since energy is conserved. If an inner electron has absorbed more than the binding energy (so that the atom ionizes), then a more outer electron may undergo a transition to fill the inner orbital. In this case, a visible photon or a characteristic X-ray is emitted, or a phenomenon known as the Auger effect may take place, where the released energy is transferred to another bound electron, causing it to go into the continuum. The Auger effect allows one to multiply ionize an atom with a single photon. There are rather strict selection rules as to the electronic configurations that can be reached by excitation by light — however, there are no such rules for excitation by collision processes. History and developments One of the earliest steps towards atomic physics was the recognition that matter was composed of atoms. It forms a part of the texts written in 6th century BC to 2nd century BC, such as those of Democritus or written by . This theory was later developed in the modern sense of the basic unit of a chemical element by the British chemist and physicist John Dalton in the 18th century. At this stage, it wasn't clear what atoms were, although they could be described and classified by their properties (in bulk). The invention of the periodic system of elements by Dmitri Mendeleev was another great step forward. The true beginning of atomic physics is marked by the discovery of spectral lines and attempts to describe the phenomenon, most notably by Joseph von Fraunhofer. The study of these lines led to the Bohr atom model and to the birth of quantum mechanics. In seeking to explain atomic spectra, an entirely new mathematical model of matter was revealed. As far as atoms and their electron shells were concerned, not only did this yield a better overall description, i.e. the atomic orbital model, but it also provided a new theoretical basis for chemistry (quantum chemistry) and spectroscopy. Since the Second World War, both theoretical and experimental fields have advanced at a rapid pace. This can be attributed to progress in computing technology, which has allowed larger and more sophisticated models of atomic structure and associated collision processes. Similar technological advances in accelerators, detectors, magnetic field generation and lasers have greatly assisted experimental work. Significant atomic physicists See also Particle physics Isomeric shift Atomic engineering Atomism Bibliography References External links MIT-Harvard Center for Ultracold Atoms Stanford QFARM Initiative for Quantum Science & Enginneering Joint Quantum Institute at University of Maryland and NIST Atomic Physics on the Internet JILA (Atomic Physics) ORNL Physics Division Atomic, molecular, and optical physics
In computing, an applet is any small application that performs one specific task that runs within the scope of a dedicated widget engine or a larger program, often as a plug-in. The term is frequently used to refer to a Java applet, a program written in the Java programming language that is designed to be placed on a web page. Applets are typical examples of transient and auxiliary applications that do not monopolize the user's attention. Applets are not full-featured application programs, and are intended to be easily accessible. History The word applet was first used in 1990 in PC Magazine. However, the concept of an applet, or more broadly a small interpreted program downloaded and executed by the user, dates at least to RFC 5 (1969) by Jeff Rulifson, which described the Decode-Encode Language, which was designed to allow remote use of the oN-Line System over ARPANET, by downloading small programs to enhance the interaction. This has been specifically credited as a forerunner of Java's downloadable programs in RFC 2555. Applet as an extension of other software In some cases, an applet does not run independently. These applets must run either in a container provided by a host program, through a plugin, or a variety of other applications including mobile devices that support the applet programming model. Web-based applets Applets were used to provide interactive features to web applications that historically could not be provided by HTML alone. They could capture mouse input and also had controls like buttons or check boxes. In response to the user action, an applet could change the provided graphic content. This made applets well suited for demonstration, visualization, and teaching. There were online applet collections for studying various subjects, from physics to heart physiology. Applets were also used to create online game collections that allowed players to compete against live opponents in real-time. An applet could also be a text area only, providing, for instance, a cross-platform command-line interface to some remote system. If needed, an applet could leave the dedicated area and run as a separate window. However, applets had very little control over web page content outside the applet dedicated area, so they were less useful for improving the site appearance in general (while applets like news tickers or WYSIWYG editors are also known). Applets could also play media in formats that are not natively supported by the browser. HTML pages could embed parameters that were passed to the applet. Hence, the same applet could appear differently depending on the parameters that were passed. Examples of Web-based applets include: QuickTime movies Flash movies Windows Media Player applets, used to display embedded video files in Internet Explorer (and other browsers that supported the plugin) 3D modeling display applets, used to rotate and zoom a model Browser games that were applet-based, though some developed into fully functional applications that required installation. Applet Vs. Subroutine A larger application distinguishes its applets through several features: Applets execute only on the "client" platform environment of a system, as contrasted from "Servlet". As such, an applet provides functionality or performance beyond the default capabilities of its container (the browser). The container restricts applets' capabilities. Applets are written in a language different from the scripting or HTML language that invokes it. The applet is written in a compiled language, whereas the scripting language of the container is an interpreted language, hence the greater performance or functionality of the applet. Unlike a subroutine, a complete web component can be implemented as an applet. Java applets A Java applet is a Java program that is launched from HTML and run in a web browser. It takes code from server and run in a web browser. It can provide web applications with interactive features that cannot be provided by HTML. Since Java's bytecode is platform-independent, Java applets can be executed by browsers running under many platforms, including Windows, Unix, macOS, and Linux. When a Java technology-enabled web browser processes a page that contains an applet, the applet's code is transferred to the client's system and executed by the browser's Java virtual machine. An HTML page references an applet either via the deprecated tag or via its replacement, the tag. Security Recent developments in the coding of applications, including mobile and embedded systems, have led to the awareness of the security of applets. Open platform applets Applets in an open platform environment should provide secure interactions between different applications. A compositional approach can be used to provide security for open platform applets. Advanced compositional verification methods have been developed for secure applet interactions. Java applets A Java applet contains different security models: unsigned Java applet security, signed Java applet security, and self-signed Java applet security. Web-based applets In an applet-enabled web browser, many methods can be used to provide applet security for malicious applets. A malicious applet can infect a computer system in many ways, including denial of service, invasion of privacy, and annoyance. A typical solution for malicious applets is to make the web browser to monitor applets' activities. This will result in a web browser that will enable the manual or automatic stopping of malicious applets. See also Application posture Bookmarklet Java applet Widget engine Abstract Window Toolkit References External links Technology neologisms Component-based software engineering Java (programming language) libraries
An artist is a person engaged in an activity related to creating art, practicing the arts, or demonstrating an art. The common usage in both everyday speech and academic discourse refers to a practitioner in the visual arts only. However, the term is also often used in the entertainment business, especially in a business context, for musicians and other performers (although less often for actors). "Artiste" (French for artist) is a variant used in English in this context, but this use has become rare. The use of the term "artist" to describe writers is valid, but less common, and mostly restricted to contexts such as critics' reviews. Dictionary definitions The Oxford English Dictionary defines the older broad meanings of the term "artist": A learned person or Master of Arts. One who pursues a practical science, traditionally medicine, astrology, alchemy, chemistry. A follower of a pursuit in which skill comes by study or practice. A follower of a manual art, such as a mechanic. One who makes their craft a fine art. One who cultivates one of the fine arts – traditionally the arts presided over by the muses. History of the term The Greek word "", often translated as "art", implies mastery of any sort of craft. The adjectival Latin form of the word, "", became the source of the English words technique, technology, and technical. In Greek culture, each of the nine Muses oversaw a different field of human creation: Calliope (the 'beautiful of speech'): chief of the muses and muse of epic or heroic poetry Clio (the 'glorious one'): muse of history Erato (the 'amorous one'): muse of love or erotic poetry, lyrics, and marriage songs Euterpe (the 'well-pleasing'): muse of music and lyric poetry Melpomene (the 'chanting one'): muse of tragedy Polyhymnia or Polymnia (the '[singer] of many hymns'): muse of sacred song, oratory, lyric, singing, and rhetoric Terpsichore (the '[one who] delights in dance'): muse of choral song and dance Thalia (the 'blossoming one'): muse of comedy and bucolic poetry Urania (the 'celestial one'): muse of astronomy No muse was identified with the visual arts of painting and sculpture. In ancient Greece sculptors and painters were held in low regard, somewhere between freemen and slaves, their work regarded as mere manual labour. The word art derives from the Latin "" (stem art-), which, although literally defined means "skill method" or "technique", also conveys a connotation of beauty. During the Middle Ages the word artist already existed in some countries such as Italy, but the meaning was something resembling craftsman, while the word artisan was still unknown. An artist was someone able to do a work better than others, so the skilled excellency was underlined, rather than the activity field. In this period, some "artisanal" products (such as textiles) were much more precious and expensive than paintings or sculptures. The first division into major and minor arts dates back at least to the works of Leon Battista Alberti (1404–1472): De re aedificatoria, De statua, De pictura, which focused on the importance of the intellectual skills of the artist rather than the manual skills (even if in other forms of art there was a project behind). With the academies in Europe (second half of 16th century) the gap between fine and applied arts was definitely set. Many contemporary definitions of "artist" and "art" are highly contingent on culture, resisting aesthetic prescription, in much the same way that the features constituting beauty and the beautiful cannot be standardized easily without moving into kitsch. Training and employment The US Bureau of Labor Statistics classifies many visual artists as either craft artists or fine artists. A craft artist makes handmade functional works of art, such as pottery or clothing. A fine artist makes paintings, illustrations (such as book illustrations or medical illustrations), sculptures, or similar artistic works primarily for their aesthetic value. The main source of skill for both craft artists and fine artists is long-term repetition and practice. Many fine artists have studied their art form at university, and some have a master's degree in fine arts. Artists may also study on their own or receive on-the-job training from an experienced artist. The number of available jobs as an artist is increasing more slowly than other fields. About half of US artists are self-employed. Others work in a variety of industries. For example, a pottery manufacturer will employ craft artists, and book publishers will hire illustrators. In the US, fine artists have a median income of approximately US$50,000 per year, and craft artists have a median income of approximately US$33,000 per year. This compares to US$61,000 for all art-related fields, including related jobs such as graphic designers, multimedia artists, animators, and fashion designers. Many artists work part-time as artists and hold a second job. See also Art Art history Arts by region Artist in Residence Fine art Humanities List of painters by name List of painters List of photographers List of composers List of sculptors List of sketches of notable people by Marguerite Martyn Mathematics and art Social science Tattoo artist Notes References P.Galloni, Il sacro artefice. Mitologie degli artigiani medievali, Laterza, Bari, 1998 C. T. Onions (1991). The Shorter Oxford English Dictionary. Clarendon Press Oxford. External links Aesthetics Art occupations Arts-related lists Humanities occupations Artisans
This article is about communications systems in Anguilla. Telephone Telephones – main lines in use: 6,200 (2002) country comparison to the world: 212 Telephones – mobile cellular: 1,800 (2002) country comparison to the world: 211 Telephone system: Domestic: Modern internal telephone system International: EAST CARIBBEAN FIBRE SYSTEM ECFS (cable system) microwave radio relay to island of Saint Martin (Guadeloupe and Netherlands Antilles) Mobile phone (GSM) Mobile phone operators: FLOW (Anguilla) Ltd. – GSM and UMTS 850 and 1900 MHz, LTE 700 MHz with Island-wide coverage Digicel (Anguilla) Ltd. – GSM and UMTS 850 to 1900 MHz, LTE 700 MHz Mobiles: ? (2007) Radio Radio broadcast stations: AM 3, FM 7, shortwave 0 (2007) Radios: 3,000 (1997) Television Television broadcast stations: 1 (1997) Televisions: 1,000 (1997) Internet Internet country code: .ai (Top level domain) Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (FLOW – , Digicel Anguilla – ) Internet hosts: 269 (2012) country comparison to the world: 192 Internet: users: 12,377 (2018) country comparison to the world: 206 See also Anguilla FLOW (Anguilla) Ltd. References External links Public Utilities Commission of Anguilla Anguilla, SubmarineCableMap.com Communications in Anguilla Anguilla Anguilla
Acoustic theory is a scientific field that relates to the description of sound waves. It derives from fluid dynamics. See acoustics for the engineering approach. For sound waves of any magnitude of a disturbance in velocity, pressure, and density we have In the case that the fluctuations in velocity, density, and pressure are small, we can approximate these as Where is the perturbed velocity of the fluid, is the pressure of the fluid at rest, is the perturbed pressure of the system as a function of space and time, is the density of the fluid at rest, and is the variance in the density of the fluid over space and time. In the case that the velocity is irrotational (), we then have the acoustic wave equation that describes the system: Where we have Derivation for a medium at rest Starting with the Continuity Equation and the Euler Equation: If we take small perturbations of a constant pressure and density: Then the equations of the system are Noting that the equilibrium pressures and densities are constant, this simplifies to A Moving Medium Starting with We can have these equations work for a moving medium by setting , where is the constant velocity that the whole fluid is moving at before being disturbed (equivalent to a moving observer) and is the fluid velocity. In this case the equations look very similar: Note that setting returns the equations at rest. Linearized Waves Starting with the above given equations of motion for a medium at rest: Let us now take to all be small quantities. In the case that we keep terms to first order, for the continuity equation, we have the term going to 0. This similarly applies for the density perturbation times the time derivative of the velocity. Moreover, the spatial components of the material derivative go to 0. We thus have, upon rearranging the equilibrium density: Next, given that our sound wave occurs in an ideal fluid, the motion is adiabatic, and then we can relate the small change in the pressure to the small change in the density by Under this condition, we see that we now have Defining the speed of sound of the system: Everything becomes For Irrotational Fluids In the case that the fluid is irrotational, that is , we can then write and thus write our equations of motion as The second equation tells us that And the use of this equation in the continuity equation tells us that This simplifies to Thus the velocity potential obeys the wave equation in the limit of small disturbances. The boundary conditions required to solve for the potential come from the fact that the velocity of the fluid must be 0 normal to the fixed surfaces of the system. Taking the time derivative of this wave equation and multiplying all sides by the unperturbed density, and then using the fact that tells us that Similarly, we saw that . Thus we can multiply the above equation appropriately and see that Thus, the velocity potential, pressure, and density all obey the wave equation. Moreover, we only need to solve one such equation to determine all other three. In particular, we have For a moving medium Again, we can derive the small-disturbance limit for sound waves in a moving medium. Again, starting with We can linearize these into For Irrotational Fluids in a Moving Medium Given that we saw that If we make the previous assumptions of the fluid being ideal and the velocity being irrotational, then we have Under these assumptions, our linearized sound equations become Importantly, since is a constant, we have , and then the second equation tells us that Or just that Now, when we use this relation with the fact that , alongside cancelling and rearranging terms, we arrive at We can write this in a familiar form as This differential equation must be solved with the appropriate boundary conditions. Note that setting returns us the wave equation. Regardless, upon solving this equation for a moving medium, we then have See also Acoustic attenuation Sound Fourier analysis References Fluid dynamics Acoustics Sound
The governor of Alabama is the head of government of the U.S. state of Alabama. The governor is the head of the executive branch of Alabama's state government and is charged with enforcing state laws. There have officially been 54 governors of the state of Alabama; this official numbering skips acting and military governors. The first governor, William Wyatt Bibb, served as the only governor of the Alabama Territory. Five people have served as acting governor, bringing the total number of people serving as governor to 59, spread over 63 distinct terms. Four governors have served multiple non-consecutive terms: Bibb Graves, Jim Folsom, and Fob James each served two, and George Wallace served three non-consecutive periods. Officially, these non-consecutive terms are numbered only with the number of their first term. William D. Jelks also served non-consecutive terms, but his first term was in an acting capacity. The longest-serving governor was George Wallace, who served 16 years over four terms. The shortest term for a non-acting governor was that of Hugh McVay, who served four and a half months after replacing the resigning Clement Comer Clay. Lurleen Wallace, the first wife of George Wallace, was the first woman to serve as governor of Alabama, and the third woman to serve as governor of any state. The current governor is Republican Kay Ivey, who took office on April 10, 2017 following Robert J. Bentley's resignation amidst a corruption scandal. She is the second female governor of Alabama. Governors Governor of the Territory of Alabama Alabama Territory was formed on March 3, 1817, from Mississippi Territory. It had only one governor appointed by the President of the United States before it became a state; he became the first state governor. Governors of the State of Alabama Alabama was admitted to the Union on December 14, 1819. It seceded from the Union on January 11, 1861, and was a founding member of the Confederate States of America on February 4, 1861. Following the end of the American Civil War, Alabama during Reconstruction was part of the Third Military District, which exerted some control over governor appointments and elections. Alabama was readmitted to the Union on July 14, 1868. The first Alabama Constitution, ratified in 1819, provided that a governor be elected every two years, limited to serve no more than 4 out of every 6 years. This limit remained in place until the constitution of 1868, which simply allowed governors to serve terms of two years. The current constitution of 1901 increased terms to four years, but prohibited governors from succeeding themselves. An amendment in 1968 allowed governors to succeed themselves once; a governor serving two consecutive terms can run again after waiting out the next term. The constitution had no set date for the commencement of a governor's term until 1901, when it was set at the first Monday after the second Tuesday in the January following an election. However, the Alabama Supreme Court ruled in 1911 that a governor's term ends at midnight at the end of Monday, and the next governor's term begins the next day, regardless of if they were sworn in on Monday. The office of lieutenant governor was created in 1868, abolished in 1875, and recreated in 1901. According to the current constitution, should the governor be out of the state for more than 20 days, the lieutenant governor becomes acting governor, and if the office of governor becomes vacant the lieutenant governor ascends to the governorship. Alabama was a strongly Democratic state before the Civil War, electing only candidates from the Democratic-Republican and Democratic parties. It had two Republican governors following Reconstruction, but after the Democratic Party re-established control, 112 years passed before voters chose another Republican. See also List of Alabama state legislatures Notes References General Specific External links Office of the Governor of Alabama Lists of state governors of the United States Governors Political history of Alabama
The term abdominal surgery broadly covers surgical procedures that involve opening the abdomen (laparotomy). Surgery of each abdominal organ is dealt with separately in connection with the description of that organ (see stomach, kidney, liver, etc.) Diseases affecting the abdominal cavity are dealt with generally under their own names (e.g. appendicitis). Types The most common abdominal surgeries are described below. Appendectomy: surgical opening of the abdominal cavity and removal of the appendix. Typically performed as definitive treatment for appendicitis, although sometimes the appendix is prophylactically removed incidental to another abdominal procedure. Caesarean section (also known as C-section): a surgical procedure in which one or more incisions are made through a mother's abdomen (laparotomy) and uterus (hysterotomy) to deliver one or more babies, or, rarely, to remove a dead fetus. Inguinal hernia surgery: the repair of an inguinal hernia. Exploratory laparotomy: the opening of the abdominal cavity for direct examination of its contents; for example, to locate a source of bleeding or trauma. It may or may not be followed by repair or removal of the primary problem. Laparoscopy: a minimally invasive approach to abdominal surgery where rigid tubes are inserted through small incisions into the abdominal cavity. The tubes allow introduction of a small camera, surgical instruments, and gases into the cavity for direct or indirect visualization and treatment of the abdomen. The abdomen is inflated with carbon dioxide gas to facilitate visualization and, often, a small video camera is used to show the procedure on a monitor in the operating room. The surgeon manipulates instruments within the abdominal cavity to perform procedures such as cholecystectomy (gallbladder removal), the most common laparoscopic procedure. The laparoscopic method speeds recovery time and reduces blood loss and infection as compared to the traditional "open" method. Complications Complications of abdominal surgery include, but are not limited to: Adhesions (also called scar tissue): complications of postoperative adhesion formation are frequent, they have a large negative effect on patients’ health, and increase workload in clinical practice Bleeding Infection Paralytic ileus: short-term paralysis of the bowel Perioperative mortality, any death occurring within 30 days after surgery Shock Sterile technique, aseptic post-operative care, antibiotics, use of the WHO Surgical Safety Checklist, and vigilant post-operative monitoring greatly reduce the risk of these complications. Planned surgery performed under sterile conditions is much less risky than that performed under emergency or unsterile conditions. The contents of the bowel are unsterile, and thus leakage of bowel contents, as from trauma, substantially increases the risk of infection. Globally, there are few studies comparing perioperative mortality following abdominal surgery across different health systems. One major prospective study of 10,745 adult patients undergoing emergency laparotomy from 357 centres in 58 high-, middle-, and low-income countries found that mortality is three times higher in low- compared with high-HDI countries even when adjusted for prognostic factors. In this study the overall global mortality rate was 1.6 percent at 24 hours (high 1.1 percent, middle 1.9 percent, low 3.4 percent), increasing to 5.4 percent by 30 days (high 4.5 percent, middle 6.0 percent, low 8.6 percent). Of the 578 patients who died, 404 (69.9 percent) did so between 24 hours and 30 days following surgery (high 74.2 percent, middle 68.8 percent, low 60.5 percent). Patient safety factors were suggested to play an important role, with use of the WHO Surgical Safety Checklist associated with reduced mortality at 30 days. Taking a similar approach, a unique global study of 1,409 children undergoing emergency laparotomy from 253 centres in 43 countries showed that adjusted mortality in children following surgery may be as high as 7 times greater in low-HDI and middle-HDI countries compared with high-HDI countries, translating to 40 excess deaths per 1,000 procedures performed in these settings. Internationally, the most common operations performed were appendectomy, small bowel resection, pyloromyotomy and correction of intussusception. After adjustment for patient and hospital risk factors, child mortality at 30 days was significantly higher in low-HDI (adjusted OR 7.14 (95% CI 2.52 to 20.23)) and middle-HDI (4.42 (1.44 to 13.56)) countries compared with high-HDI countries. Absorption of drugs administered orally was shown to be significantly affected following abdominal surgery. There is low-certainty evidence that there is no difference between using scalpel and electrosurgery in infection rates during major abdominal surgeries. See also Abdominoplasty ASA physical status classification system or perioperative physical fitness Diabetes General surgery Laparotomy Low-fiber/low-residue diet Perioperative mortality References Surgical specialties General surgery
Abduction may refer to: Media Film and television "Abduction" (The Outer Limits), a 2001 television episode "Abduction" (Death Note) a Japanese animation television series "Abductions" (Totally Spies!), a 2002 episode of an animated television series "The Abduction" (Alias), a 2002 television episode "The Abduction" (Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman), a 1994 television episode Abduction (1975 film), directed by Joseph Zito Abduction (1997 film), directed by Takao Okawara Abduction (2011 film), directed by John Singleton Abduction (2019 film), directed by Ernie Barbarash Abduction: The Megumi Yokota Story, a 2005 American documentary film The Abduction, a 1996 TV movie starring Victoria Principal and Robert Hays Literature Abduction (novel), a 2000 novel by novelist Robin Cook Abduction!, a 2004 novel by Peg Kehret The Abduction, a 1987 novel (Norwegian title Bortførelsen), written in Norwegian by Mette Newth and translated into English by Steven T. Murray and Tiina Nunnally The Abduction, a 1998 novel by J. Robert King Music "Abduction", a 2005 song by Iron Maiden vocalist Bruce Dickinson Abduction, a music label run by members of Sun City Girls Of a person or people Alien abduction, phenomenon of people reporting what they believe to be the real experience of being kidnapped by extraterrestrial beings Bride kidnapping, a practice in which a man abducts the woman he wishes to marry Child abduction, unauthorized removal of a minor from the custody of their guardians Express kidnapping, abduction where a small immediate ransom is demanded International child abduction, form of human trafficking Kidnapping, unlawful confinement of a person against their will Raptio, large scale abduction of women Tiger kidnapping, taking a hostage to force a loved one or associate of the victim to do something Sciences Abduction (anatomy), a type of movement which draws a structure or limb away from the median plane of the body Abductive reasoning, a method of reasoning in logic See also Abducted (disambiguation) Abductor (disambiguation)
In mathematics, the term "almost all" means "all but a negligible quantity". More precisely, if is a set, "almost all elements of " means "all elements of but those in a negligible subset of ". The meaning of "negligible" depends on the mathematical context; for instance, it can mean finite, countable, or null. In contrast, "almost no" means "a negligible quantity"; that is, "almost no elements of " means "a negligible quantity of elements of ". Meanings in different areas of mathematics Prevalent meaning Throughout mathematics, "almost all" is sometimes used to mean "all (elements of an infinite set) except for finitely many". This use occurs in philosophy as well. Similarly, "almost all" can mean "all (elements of an uncountable set) except for countably many". Examples: Almost all positive integers are greater than 1012. Almost all prime numbers are odd (2 is the only exception). Almost all polyhedra are irregular (as there are only nine exceptions: the five platonic solids and the four Kepler–Poinsot polyhedra). If P is a nonzero polynomial, then P(x) ≠ 0 for almost all x (if not all x). Meaning in measure theory When speaking about the reals, sometimes "almost all" can mean "all reals except for a null set". Similarly, if S is some set of reals, "almost all numbers in S" can mean "all numbers in S except for those in a null set". The real line can be thought of as a one-dimensional Euclidean space. In the more general case of an n-dimensional space (where n is a positive integer), these definitions can be generalised to "all points except for those in a null set" or "all points in S except for those in a null set" (this time, S is a set of points in the space). Even more generally, "almost all" is sometimes used in the sense of "almost everywhere" in measure theory, or in the closely related sense of "almost surely" in probability theory. Examples: In a measure space, such as the real line, countable sets are null. The set of rational numbers is countable, so almost all real numbers are irrational. Georg Cantor's first set theory article proved that the set of algebraic numbers is countable as well, so almost all reals are transcendental. Almost all reals are normal. The Cantor set is also null. Thus, almost all reals are not in it even though it is uncountable. The derivative of the Cantor function is 0 for almost all numbers in the unit interval. It follows from the previous example because the Cantor function is locally constant, and thus has derivative 0 outside the Cantor set. Meaning in number theory In number theory, "almost all positive integers" can mean "the positive integers in a set whose natural density is 1". That is, if A is a set of positive integers, and if the proportion of positive integers in A below n (out of all positive integers below n) tends to 1 as n tends to infinity, then almost all positive integers are in A. More generally, let S be an infinite set of positive integers, such as the set of even positive numbers or the set of primes, if A is a subset of S, and if the proportion of elements of S below n that are in A (out of all elements of S below n) tends to 1 as n tends to infinity, then it can be said that almost all elements of S are in A. Examples: The natural density of cofinite sets of positive integers is 1, so each of them contains almost all positive integers. Almost all positive integers are composite. Almost all even positive numbers can be expressed as the sum of two primes. Almost all primes are isolated. Moreover, for every positive integer , almost all primes have prime gaps of more than both to their left and to their right; that is, there is no other prime between and . Meaning in graph theory In graph theory, if A is a set of (finite labelled) graphs, it can be said to contain almost all graphs, if the proportion of graphs with n vertices that are in A tends to 1 as n tends to infinity. However, it is sometimes easier to work with probabilities, so the definition is reformulated as follows. The proportion of graphs with n vertices that are in A equals the probability that a random graph with n vertices (chosen with the uniform distribution) is in A, and choosing a graph in this way has the same outcome as generating a graph by flipping a coin for each pair of vertices to decide whether to connect them. Therefore, equivalently to the preceding definition, the set A contains almost all graphs if the probability that a coin-flip–generated graph with n vertices is in A tends to 1 as n tends to infinity. Sometimes, the latter definition is modified so that the graph is chosen randomly in some other way, where not all graphs with n vertices have the same probability, and those modified definitions are not always equivalent to the main one. The use of the term "almost all" in graph theory is not standard; the term "asymptotically almost surely" is more commonly used for this concept. Example: Almost all graphs are asymmetric. Almost all graphs have diameter 2. Meaning in topology In topology and especially dynamical systems theory (including applications in economics), "almost all" of a topological space's points can mean "all of the space's points except for those in a meagre set". Some use a more limited definition, where a subset contains almost all of the space's points only if it contains some open dense set. Example: Given an irreducible algebraic variety, the properties that hold for almost all points in the variety are exactly the generic properties. This is due to the fact that in an irreducible algebraic variety equipped with the Zariski topology, all nonempty open sets are dense. Meaning in algebra In abstract algebra and mathematical logic, if U is an ultrafilter on a set X, "almost all elements of X" sometimes means "the elements of some element of U". For any partition of X into two disjoint sets, one of them will necessarily contain almost all elements of X. It is possible to think of the elements of a filter on X as containing almost all elements of X, even if it isn't an ultrafilter. Proofs See also Almost Almost everywhere Almost surely References Primary sources Secondary sources Mathematical terminology
Aromatic compounds, also known as "mono- and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons", are organic compounds containing one or more aromatic rings. The word "aromatic" originates from the past grouping of molecules based on odor, before their general chemical properties were understood. The current definition of aromatic compounds does not have any relation with their odor. Heteroarenes are closely related, since at least one carbon atom of CH group is replaced by one of the heteroatoms oxygen, nitrogen, or sulfur. Examples of non-benzene compounds with aromatic properties are furan, a heterocyclic compound with a five-membered ring that includes a single oxygen atom, and pyridine, a heterocyclic compound with a six-membered ring containing one nitrogen atom. Hydrocarbons without an aromatic ring are called aliphatic. Approximately half of compounds known in the year 2000 are described as aromatic to some extent. Aromatic compounds play key roles in the biochemistry of all living things. The four aromatic amino acids histidine, phenylalanine, tryptophan, and tyrosine each serve as one of the 20 basic building-blocks of proteins. Further, all 5 nucleotides (adenine, thymine, cytosine, guanine, and uracil) that make up the sequence of the genetic code in DNA and RNA are aromatic purines or pyrimidines. The molecule heme contains an aromatic system with 22 π-electrons. Chlorophyll also has a similar aromatic system. Aromatic compounds are important in industry. Key aromatic hydrocarbons of commercial interest are benzene, toluene, ortho-xylene and para-xylene. About 35 million tonnes are produced worldwide every year. They are extracted from complex mixtures obtained by the refining of oil or by distillation of coal tar, and are used to produce a range of important chemicals and polymers, including styrene, phenol, aniline, polyester and nylon. Benzene ring model Benzene, C6H6, is the least complex aromatic hydrocarbon, and it was the first one named as such. The nature of its bonding was first recognized by August Kekulé in the 19th century. Each carbon atom in the hexagonal cycle has four electrons to share. One goes to the hydrogen atom, and one to each of the two neighboring carbons. This leaves one electron to share with one of the two neighboring carbon atoms, thus creating a double bond with one carbon and leaving a single bond with the other, which is why some representations of the benzene molecule portray it as a hexagon with alternating single and double bonds. Other depictions of the structure portray the hexagon with a circle inside it, to indicate that the six electrons are floating around in delocalized molecular orbitals the size of the ring itself. This represents the equivalent nature of the six carbon-carbon bonds all of bond order 1.5; the equivalency is explained by resonance forms. The electrons are visualized as floating above and below the ring, with the electromagnetic fields they generate acting to keep the ring flat. General properties of aromatic hydrocarbons: They display aromaticity The carbon-hydrogen ratio is high They burn with a strong sooty yellow flame because of the high carbon–hydrogen ratio They undergo electrophilic substitution reactions and nucleophilic aromatic substitutions The circle symbol for aromaticity was introduced by Sir Robert Robinson and his student James Armit in 1925 and popularized starting in 1959 by the Morrison & Boyd textbook on organic chemistry. The proper use of the symbol is debated: some publications use it to any cyclic π system, while others use it only for those π systems that obey Hückel's rule. Jensen argues that, in line with Robinson's original proposal, the use of the circle symbol should be limited to monocyclic 6 π-electron systems. In this way the circle symbol for a six-center six-electron bond can be compared to the Y symbol for a three-center two-electron bond. Reactions Aromatic ring systems participate in many organic reactions. Aromatic substitution In aromatic substitution one substituent on the arene ring, usually hydrogen, is replaced by another substituent. The two main types are electrophilic aromatic substitution, when the active reagent is an electrophile, and nucleophilic aromatic substitution, when the reagent is a nucleophile. In radical-nucleophilic aromatic substitution, the active reagent is a radical. An example of electrophilic aromatic substitution is the nitration of salicylic acid: Coupling reactions In coupling reactions a metal catalyzes a coupling between two formal radical fragments. Common coupling reactions with arenes result in the formation of new carbon–carbon bonds e.g., alkylarenes, vinyl arenes, biraryls, new carbon–nitrogen bonds (anilines) or new carbon–oxygen bonds (aryloxy compounds). An example is a direct arylation of perfluorobenzenes Hydrogenation Hydrogenation of arenes create saturated rings. The compound 1-naphthol is completely reduced to a mixture of decalin-ol isomers. The compound resorcinol, hydrogenated with Raney nickel in presence of aqueous sodium hydroxide forms an enolate which is alkylated with methyl iodide to 2-methyl-1,3-cyclohexandione: Cycloadditions Cycloaddition reactions are not common. Unusual thermal Diels–Alder reactivity of arenes can be found in the Wagner-Jauregg reaction. Other photochemical cycloaddition reactions with alkenes occur through excimers. Dearomatization In dearomatization reactions the aromaticity of the reactant is permanently lost. Benzene and derivatives of benzene Benzene derivatives have from one to six substituents attached to the central benzene core. Examples of benzene compounds with just one substituent are phenol, which carries a hydroxyl group, and toluene with a methyl group. When there is more than one substituent present on the ring, their spatial relationship becomes important for which the arene substitution patterns ortho, meta, and para are devised. For example, three isomers exist for cresol because the methyl group and the hydroxyl group can be placed next to each other (ortho), one position removed from each other (meta), or two positions removed from each other (para). Xylenol has two methyl groups in addition to the hydroxyl group, and, for this structure, 6 isomers exist. The arene ring has the ability to stabilize charges. This is seen in, for example, phenol (C6H5–OH), which is acidic at the hydroxyl (OH), since a charge on this oxygen (alkoxide –O−) is partially delocalized into the benzene ring. Other monocyclic aromatic hydrocarbon Other monocyclic aromatic hydrocarbon include Cyclotetradecaheptaene or Cyclooctadecanonaene. Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons Polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are aromatic hydrocarbons that consist of fused aromatic rings and do not contain heteroatoms or carry substituents. Naphthalene is the simplest example of a PAH. PAHs occur in oil, coal, and tar deposits, and are produced as byproducts of fuel burning (whether fossil fuel or biomass). As pollutants, they are of concern because some compounds have been identified as carcinogenic, mutagenic, and teratogenic. PAHs are also found in cooked foods. Studies have shown that high levels of PAHs are found, for example, in meat cooked at high temperatures such as grilling or barbecuing, and in smoked fish. They are also found in the interstellar medium, in comets, and in meteorites and are a candidate molecule to act as a basis for the earliest forms of life. In graphene the PAH motif is extended to large 2D sheets. See also Aromatic substituents: Aryl, Aryloxy and Arenediyl Asphaltene Hydrodealkylation Simple aromatic rings Rhodium-platinum oxide, a catalyst used to hydrogenate aromatic compounds. References External links
Kim Renard Nazel (born June 17, 1965), better known by his stage names Arabian Prince or Professor X, is an American rapper, record producer, and DJ. He was a founding member of N.W.A. Early life Nazel was born in Compton, California to the son of Joseph "Skippy" Nazel Jr., an African-American author and radio talk show host. His musical background came from his mother, a piano teacher and classical musician. His family tried its best to shelter him, sending him to a Catholic school and keeping him busy with football to keep him away from the gangs. The younger Nazel got his first experience with making music at the radio station his father hosted his talk show on; Nazel used the radio station's equipment to put together mixtapes that he would sell at school. Nazel went on to graduate from Junípero Serra High School in nearby Gardena. Music career Nazel took the stage name of DJ Prince and started selling mixtapes at school. While working at a luggage store at the Del Amo Mall, its owner, Sam Nassif, asked him to DJ a party at a community center. He kept performing there for several weekends and the success persuaded Nassif to invest even more in the place, renaming it "The Cave", where Nazel would continue to host for over three years and even after his N.W.A days. Nassif also funded DJ Prince's first record, "Strange Life". He changed his stage name when he was 15 years old at the Skateland USA, the same skating venue credited for launching N.W.A a few years later, due to a fan's suggestion. He said about his name: Arabian Prince started working with Bobby Jimmy & the Critters in 1984. He also produced the hit single and album for J.J. Fad, "Supersonic". In 1986, he was a founding member of N.W.A, but soon after fellow member Ice Cube came back from the Phoenix Institute of Technology in 1988, Arabian Prince left over royalty and contract disagreements. "I started off as a solo artist", he said, "so I was aware of what a royalty statement was. I knew that when these many records were sold, there is a quarterly statement. When you look at it, you can see how much money was paid and then share it. This was not the case. We were also never paid for touring." Eazy-E, Ice Cube and MC Ren remained as the main performers, DJ Yella was the turntablist and Dr. Dre was the main producer. After leaving N.W.A, Arabian Prince began a solo career. His first album, Brother Arab, was released in 1989 with the single "She's Got A Big Posse"; Where's My Bytches followed in 1993. In the mid-2000s, he started releasing music again, with his Professor X project on the Dutch label Clone Records. "I could not release the record under Arabian Prince", he said, "because I already had a single out, so I called myself Professor X on that record." In 2007, he performed as a DJ on the 2K Sports Holiday Bounce Tour with artists from the Stones Throw label. In 2008, Stones Throw released a compilation of his electro-rap material from the 1980s. One of his songs was included on the 2007 video game, College Hoops 2K8. In 2015, a biopic about N.W.A. titled Straight Outta Compton was released; however, Arabian Prince was not portrayed in the film. The following year, N.W.A. was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, but again, Arabian Prince was not included nor mentioned. In 2018, Arabian Prince appeared on the AmeriKKKant album of industrial-metal band Ministry. He made a second appearance on Ministry's 2021 album Moral Hygiene. Other ventures Aside from his music career, he worked in special effects, 3D animation and video games. Comments on Straight Outta Compton film After the release of the N.W.A film, Straight Outta Compton, in 2015, Arabian Prince said to VladTV: "A lot of the scenes in real life, I was there—I'm just not there in the film, which I'm like, if you're gonna write me out of a movie, shoot some other scenes. Don't write scenes where I was there." Some of the pivotal scenes would be choosing the name for the band, the tour and the infamous Detroit concert. He also remembers himself as the main opposer to Jerry Heller about the royalties and the money, a role that in the film was instead given to Ice Cube. Discography Solo Strange Life (Rapsur, 1984) It Ain’t Tough (Rapsur, 1985) Take You Home Girl / Innovator (Rapsur, 1985) Situation Hot (Street Kut, 1986) Freak City (Macola, 1986) Professor X (Saga) (Techno Kut, 1989) Brother Arab (Orpheus, 1989) Where's My Bytches (Da Bozak, 1993) Simple Planet / Beatdabeat (Stones Throw, 2008) Compilations Situation Hot (Macola, 1990) Innovative Life: The Anthology, 1984–1989 (Stones Throw, 2008) Professor X (Clone, 2007/2008) With Bobby Jimmy and the Critters Ugly Knuckle Butt (1985) Roaches: The Beginning (1986) Back and Proud (1987) With N.W.A "Panic Zone" (single) (1987) N.W.A. and the Posse (1987) Straight Outta Compton (1988) References External links Interview with Arabian Prince & Biography on westcoastpioneers August 2008 Interview with L.A. Record Arabian Prince RBMA lecture Arabian Prince: What Happened After N.W.A. and the Posse? at Phoenix New Times DJ Arabian Prince Interview at NAMM Oral History Library (2020) 1964 births Living people African-American male rappers American male rappers Musicians from Compton, California N.W.A members Ruthless Records artists 20th-century American rappers 21st-century American rappers American hip hop singers African-American male singer-songwriters 20th-century African-American male singers 21st-century African-American male singers Singer-songwriters from California Special effects people
The Apache Software Foundation ( ; ASF) is an American nonprofit corporation (classified as a 501(c)(3) organization in the United States) to support a number of open-source software projects. The ASF was formed from a group of developers of the Apache HTTP Server, and incorporated on March 25, 1999. it includes approximately 1000 members. The Apache Software Foundation is a decentralized open source community of developers. The software they produce is distributed under the terms of the Apache License, a permissive open-source license for free and open-source software (FOSS). The Apache projects are characterized by a collaborative, consensus-based development process and an open and pragmatic software license, which is to say that it allows developers, who receive the software freely, to redistribute it under non-free terms. Each project is managed by a self-selected team of technical experts who are active contributors to the project. The ASF is a meritocracy, implying that membership of the foundation is granted only to volunteers who have actively contributed to Apache projects. The ASF is considered a second-generation open-source organization, in that commercial support is provided without the risk of platform lock-in. Among the ASF's objectives are: to provide legal protection to volunteers working on Apache projects, and to prevent the "Apache" brand name from being used by other organizations without permission. The ASF also holds several ApacheCon conferences each year, highlighting Apache projects and related technology. History The history of the Apache Software Foundation is linked to the Apache HTTP Server, development beginning in February 1993. A group of eight developers started working on enhancing the NCSA HTTPd daemon. They came to be known as the Apache Group. On March 25, 1999, the Apache Software Foundation was formed. The first official meeting of the Apache Software Foundation was held on April 13, 1999. The initial members of the Apache Software Foundation consisted of the Apache Group: Brian Behlendorf, Ken Coar, Miguel Gonzales, Mark Cox, Lars Eilebrecht, Ralf S. Engelschall, Roy T. Fielding, Dean Gaudet, Ben Hyde, Jim Jagielski, Alexei Kosut, Martin Kraemer, Ben Laurie, Doug MacEachern, Aram Mirzadeh, Sameer Parekh, Cliff Skolnick, Marc Slemko, William (Bill) Stoddard, Paul Sutton, Randy Terbush and Dirk-Willem van Gulik. After a series of additional meetings to elect board members and resolve other legal matters regarding incorporation, the effective incorporation date of the Apache Software Foundation was set to June 1, 1999. Co-founder Brian Behlendorf states how the name 'Apache' was chosen: "I suggested the name Apache partly because the web technologies at the time that were launching were being called cyber this or spider that or something on those themes and I was like we need something a little more interesting, a little more romantic, not to be a cultural appropriator or anything like that, I had just seen a documentary about Geronimo and the last days of a Native American tribe called the Apaches, right, who succumbed to the invasion from the West, from the United States, and they were the last tribe to give up their territory and for me that almost romantically represented what I felt we were doing with this web-server project..." Projects Apache divides its software development activities into separate semi-autonomous areas called "top-level projects" (formally known as a "Project Management Committee" in the bylaws), some of which have a number of sub-projects. Unlike some other organizations that host FOSS projects, before a project is hosted at Apache it has to be licensed to the ASF with a grant or contributor agreement. In this way, the ASF gains the necessary intellectual property rights for the development and distribution of all its projects. Board of directors The Board of Directors of The Apache Software Foundation (ASF) is responsible for management and oversight of the business and affairs of the corporation in accordance with the Bylaws. This includes management of the corporate assets (funds, intellectual property, trademarks, and support equipment), appointment of a President and corporate officers managing the core operations of the ASF, and allocation of corporate resources for the benefit of Apache projects. Technical decision-making authority for every Apache project is assigned to their independent project management committee; the participants in each project provide direction, not the board. The board is elected annually by the ASF membership. Since March 17, 2021, the board of directors has been: Bertrand Delacretaz Roy T. Fielding Sharan Foga Justin Mclean Sam Ruby Craig L. Russell Roman Shaposhnik Sander Striker Sheng Wu See also List of Apache Software Foundation projects Apache Attic Apache Incubator Log4Shell CNCF Linux Foundation Notes Further reading Wikinomics: How Mass Collaboration Changes Everything (2006); Don Tapscott, Anthony D. Williams. External links ApacheCon website “Trillions and Trillions Served” Feature documentary by the Apache Software Foundation detailing its history and impact on the open-source software community (2020) 1999 establishments in Maryland 501(c)(3) organizations Free and open-source software organizations Non-profit organizations based in Maryland Software companies established in 1999
Ancylopoda is a group of browsing, herbivorous, mammals in the Perissodactyla that show long, curved and cleft claws. Morphological evidence indicates the Ancylopoda diverged from the tapirs, rhinoceroses and horses (Euperissodactyla) after the Brontotheria; however, earlier authorities such as Osborn sometimes considered the Ancylopoda to be outside Perissodactyla or, as was popular more recently, to be related to Brontotheriidae. Macrotherium, which is typically from the middle Miocene of Sansan, in Gers, France, may indicate a distinct genus. Limb-bones resembling those of Macrotherium, but relatively stouter, have been described from the Pliocene beds of Attica and Samos as Ancylotherium. In the Americas, the names Morothorium and Moropus have been applied to similar bones, in the belief that they indicated Xenarthrans. Macrotherium magnum must have been an animal of about nine feet in length. References Chalicotheres Eocene first appearances Pleistocene extinctions
Anbar (, ,) also known by its original ancient name, Peroz-Shapur, was an ancient and medieval town in central Iraq. It played a role in the Roman–Persian Wars of the 3rd–4th centuries, and briefly became the capital of the Abbasid Caliphate before the founding of Baghdad in 762. It remained a moderately prosperous town through the 10th century, but quickly declined thereafter. As a local administrative centre, it survived until the 14th century, but was later abandoned. Its ruins are near modern Fallujah. The city gives its name to the Al-Anbar Governorate. History Origins The city is located on the left bank of the Middle Euphrates, at the junction with the Nahr Isa canal, the first of the navigable canals that link the Euphrates to the River Tigris to the east. The origins of the city are unknown, but ancient, perhaps dating to the Babylonian era and even earlier: the local artificial mound of Tell Aswad dates to . Sasanian period The town was originally known as Misiche (Greek: ), Mesiche (), or Massice ( mšyk; mšyk). As a major crossing point of the Euphrates, and occupying the northernmost point of the complex irrigation network of the Sawad, the town was of considerable strategic significance. As the western gate to central Mesopotamia, it was fortified by the Sasanian ruler Shapur I () to shield his capital, Ctesiphon, from the Roman Empire. After his decisive defeat of the Roman emperor Gordian III at the Battle of Misiche in 244, Shapur renamed the town to Peroz-Shapur (Pērōz-Šāpūr or Pērōz-Šābuhr, from , meaning "victorious Shapur"; in ; in ). It became known as Pirisapora or Bersabora () to the Greeks and Romans. The city was fortified by a double wall, possibly through the use of Roman prisoner labour; it was sacked and burned after an agreement with its garrison in March 363 by the Roman emperor Julian during his invasion of the Sasanian Empire. It was rebuilt by Shapur II. By 420, it is attested as a bishopric, both for the Church of the East and for the Syriac Orthodox Church. The town's garrison was Persian, but it also contained sizeable Arab and Jewish populations. Anbar was adjacent or identical to the Babylonian Jewish center of Nehardea (), and lies a short distance from the present-day town of Fallujah, formerly the Babylonian Jewish center of Pumbedita (). Islamic period The city fell to the Rashidun Caliphate in July 633, after a fiercely fought siege. When Ali ibn Abi Talib (r. 656–661) passed through the city, he was warmly welcomed by ninety-thousand Jews who then lived there, and he "received them with great friendliness." The Arabs retained the name (Fīrūz Shābūr) for the surrounding district, but the town itself became known as Anbar (Middle Persian word for "granary" or "storehouse") from the granaries in its citadel, a name that had appeared already during the 6th century. According to Baladhuri, the third mosque to be built in Iraq was erected in the city by Sa'd ibn Abi Waqqas. Ibn Abi Waqqas initially considered Anbar as a candidate for the location of one of the first Muslim garrison towns, but the fever and fleas endemic in the area persuaded him otherwise. According to medieval Arabic sources, most of the inhabitants of the town migrated north to found the city of Hdatta south of Mosul. The famous governor al-Hajjaj ibn Yusuf cleared the canals of the city. Abu'l-Abbas as-Saffah (), the founder of the Abbasid Caliphate, made it his capital in 752, constructing a new town half a farsakh () to the north for his Khurasani troops. There he died and was buried at the palace he had built. His successor, al-Mansur (), remained in the city until the founding of Baghdad in 762. The Abbasids also dug the great Nahr Isa canal to the south of the city, which carried water and commerce east to Baghdad. The Nahr al-Saqlawiyya or Nahr al-Qarma canal, which branches off from the Euphrates to the west of the city, is sometimes erroneously held to be the Nahr Isa, but it is more likely that it is to be identified with the pre-Islamic Nahr al-Rufayl. It continued to be a place of much importance throughout the Abbasid period. Caliph Harun al-Rashid () stayed at the town in 799 and in 803. The town's prosperity was founded on agricultural activities, but also on trade between Iraq and Syria. The town was still prosperous in the early 9th century, but the decline of Abbasid authority during the later 9th century exposed it to Bedouin attacks in 882 and 899. In 927, the Qarmatians under Abu Tahir al-Jannabi sacked the city during their invasion of Iraq, and the devastation was compounded by another Bedouin attack two years later. The town's decline accelerated after that: while the early 10th-century geographer Istakhri still calls the town modest but populous, with the ruins of the buildings of as-Saffah still visible, Ibn Hawqal and al-Maqdisi, who wrote a generation later, attest to its decline, and the diminution of its population. The town was sacked again in 1262 by the Mongols under Kerboka. The Ilkhanids retained Anbar as an administrative centre, a role it retained until the first half of the 14th century; the Ilkhanid minister Shams al-Din Juvayni had a canal dug from the city to Najaf, and the city was surrounded by a wall of sun-dried bricks. Ecclesiastical history Anbar used to host an Assyrian community from the fifth century: the town was the seat of a bishopric of the Church of the East. The names of fourteen of its bishops of the period 486–1074 are known, three of whom became Chaldean Patriarchs of Babylon. Narses Simeon Salibazachi Paul Theodosius John Enos 890 Elias Jaballaha Sebarjesus Elias II Unnamed bishop Mundar Maris Zacharias Titular see Anbar is listed by the Catholic Church as a titular see of the Chaldean Catholic Church, established as titular bishopric in 1980. It has had the following incumbents: Titular Archbishop Stéphane Katchou (1980.10.03 – 1981.11.10), as Coadjutor Archeparch of Bassorah of the Chaldeans (Iraq) (1980.10.03 – 1981.11.10) Titular Bishop Ibrahim Namo Ibrahim (1982.01.11 – 1985.08.03), as Apostolic Exarch in the United States of America (1982.01.11 – 1985.08.03) Titular Bishop Shlemon Warduni (since 2001.01.12), Curial Bishop of the Chaldean Catholic Church Today It is now entirely deserted, occupied only by mounds of ruins, whose great number indicate the city's former importance. Its ruins are northwest of Fallujah, with a circumference of some . The remains include traces of the late medieval wall, a square fortification, and the early Islamic mosque. Citations General sources GCatholic, with titular incumbent biography links Al Anbar Governorate Dioceses of the Church of the East Eastern Catholic titular sees Former populated places in Iraq Medieval Iraq Abbasid Caliphate Capitals in Asia Archaeological sites in Iraq
The Anadyr (; Yukaghir: Онандырь; ) is a river in the far northeast of Siberia which flows into the Gulf of Anadyr of the Bering Sea and drains much of the interior of Chukotka Autonomous Okrug. Its basin corresponds to the Anadyrsky District of Chukotka. Geography The Anadyr is long and has a basin of . It is frozen from October to late May and has a maximum flow in June with the snowmelt. It is navigable in small boats for about to near Markovo. West of Markovo it is in the Anadyr Highlands (moderate mountains and valleys with a few trees) and east of Markovo it moves into the Anadyr Lowlands (very flat treeless tundra with lakes and bogs). The drop from Markovo to the sea is less than . It rises at about 67°N latitude and 171°E longitude in the Anadyr Highlands, near the headwaters of the Maly Anyuy, flows southwest receiving the waters of the rivers Yablon and Yeropol, turns east around the Shchuchy Range and passes Markvovo and the old site of Anadyrsk, turns north and east and receives the Mayn from the south, thereby encircling the Lebediny Zakaznik, turns northeast to receive the Belaya from the north in the Parapol-Belsky Lowlands, then past Ust-Belaya it turns southeast into the Anadyr Lowlands past the Ust-Tanyurer Zakaznik and receives the Tanyurer from the north. At Lake Krasnoye, it turns east and flows into the Onemen Bay of the Anadyr Estuary. If the Onemen Bay is considered part of the river, it also receives the Velikaya from the south and the Kanchalan from the north. Other important tributaries are the Yablon, Yeropol and Mamolina from the right and the Chineyveyem and Ubiyenka from the left. Its basin is surrounded by the Amguema and Palyavaam basins to the north, the Bolshoy Anyuy, Oloy and Kolyma basins to the northwest, and the Penzhina basin to the southwest. History In 1648, Semyon Dezhnev reached the mouth of the Anadyr after being shipwrecked on the coast. In 1649, he went upriver and built winter quarters at Anadyrsk. For the next 100 years, the Anadyr was the main route from the Arctic to the Pacific and Kamchatka. In the 18th century, the Anadyr was described by the polar explorer Dmitry Laptev. Ecology The country through which it passes is thinly populated, and is dominated by tundra, with a rich variety of plant life. Much of the region's landscapes are dominated by rugged mountains. For nine months of the year the ground is covered with snow, and the frozen rivers become navigable roads. George Kennan, an American working on the Western Union Telegraph Expedition in the late 1860s, found that dog sled travel on the lower Anadyr was limited by lack of firewood. Reindeer, upon which the local inhabitants subsisted, were once found in considerable numbers, but the domestic reindeer population has collapsed dramatically since the reorganization and privatization of state-run collective farms beginning in 1992. As herds of domestic reindeer have declined, herds of wild caribou have increased. There are ten species of salmon inhabiting the Anadyr river basin. Every year, on the last Sunday in April, there is an ice fishing competition in the frozen estuarine waters of the Anadyr's mouth. This festival is locally known as Korfest. The area is a summering place for a number of migratory birds including brent geese, Eurasian wigeons, and the pintails of California. See also Operation Anadyr Sources Footnotes Notes References External links "Tourist and environmental information" Chukotka Autonomous Okrug website, in English "Russia Far East: Anadyr River" Wild Salmon Center Anadyr River Watershed "Snezhnoye: a village on the Anadyr' River" Rivers of Chukotka Autonomous Okrug Drainage basins of the Bering Sea
In the ancient Greek myths, ambrosia (, ) is the food or drink of the Greek gods, and is often depicted as conferring longevity or immortality upon whoever consumed it. It was brought to the gods in Olympus by doves and served either by Hebe or by Ganymede at the heavenly feast. Ancient art sometimes depicted ambrosia as distributed by the nymph named Ambrosia, a nurse of Dionysus. Definition Ambrosia is very closely related to the gods' other form of sustenance, nectar. The two terms may not have originally been distinguished; though in Homer's poems nectar is usually the drink and ambrosia the food of the gods; it was with ambrosia that Hera "cleansed all defilement from her lovely flesh", and with ambrosia Athena prepared Penelope in her sleep, so that when she appeared for the final time before her suitors, the effects of years had been stripped away, and they were inflamed with passion at the sight of her. On the other hand, in Alcman, nectar is the food, and in Sappho and Anaxandrides, ambrosia is the drink. A character in Aristophanes' Knights says, "I dreamed the goddess poured ambrosia over your head—out of a ladle." Both descriptions could be correct, as ambrosia could be a liquid considered a food (such as honey). The consumption of ambrosia was typically reserved for divine beings. Upon his assumption into immortality on Olympus, Heracles is given ambrosia by Athena, while the hero Tydeus is denied the same thing when the goddess discovers him eating human brains. In one version of the myth of Tantalus, part of Tantalus' crime is that after tasting ambrosia himself, he attempts to steal some to give to other mortals. Those who consume ambrosia typically have ichor, not blood, in their veins. Both nectar and ambrosia are fragrant, and may be used as perfume: in the Odyssey Menelaus and his men are disguised as seals in untanned seal skins, "and the deadly smell of the seal skins vexed us sore; but the goddess saved us; she brought ambrosia and put it under our nostrils." Homer speaks of ambrosial raiment, ambrosial locks of hair, even the gods' ambrosial sandals. Among later writers, ambrosia has been so often used with generic meanings of "delightful liquid" that such late writers as Athenaeus, Paulus and Dioscurides employ it as a technical term in contexts of cookery, medicine, and botany. Pliny used the term in connection with different plants, as did early herbalists. Additionally, some modern ethnomycologists, such as Danny Staples, identify ambrosia with the hallucinogenic mushroom Amanita muscaria: "it was the food of the gods, their ambrosia, and nectar was the pressed sap of its juices", Staples asserts. W. H. Roscher thinks that both nectar and ambrosia were kinds of honey, in which case their power of conferring immortality would be due to the supposed healing and cleansing powers of honey, and because fermented honey (mead) preceded wine as an entheogen in the Aegean world; on some Minoan seals, goddesses were represented with bee faces (compare Merope and Melissa). Etymology The concept of an immortality drink is attested in at least two ancient Indo-European languages: Greek and Sanskrit. The Greek ἀμβροσία (ambrosia) is semantically linked to the Sanskrit (amṛta) as both words denote a drink or food that gods use to achieve immortality. The two words appear to be derived from the same Indo-European form *ṇ-mṛ-tós, "un-dying" (n-: negative prefix from which the prefix a- in both Greek and Sanskrit are derived; mṛ: zero grade of *mer-, "to die"; and -to-: adjectival suffix). A semantically similar etymology exists for nectar, the beverage of the gods (Greek: νέκταρ néktar) presumed to be a compound of the PIE roots *nek-, "death", and -*tar, "overcoming". Other examples in mythology In one version of the story of the birth of Achilles, Thetis anoints the infant with ambrosia and passes the child through the fire to make him immortal but Peleus, appalled, stops her, leaving only his heel unimmortalised (Argonautica 4.869–879). In the Iliad xvi, Apollo washes the black blood from the corpse of Sarpedon and anoints it with ambrosia, readying it for its dreamlike return to Sarpedon's native Lycia. Similarly, Thetis anoints the corpse of Patroclus in order to preserve it. Ambrosia and nectar are depicted as unguents (xiv. 170; xix. 38). In the Odyssey, Calypso is described as having "spread a table with ambrosia and set it by Hermes, and mixed the rosy-red nectar." It is ambiguous whether he means the ambrosia itself is rosy-red, or if he is describing a rosy-red nectar Hermes drinks along with the ambrosia. Later, Circe mentions to Odysseus that a flock of doves are the bringers of ambrosia to Olympus. In the Odyssey (ix.345–359), Polyphemus likens the wine given to him by Odysseus to ambrosia and nectar. One of the impieties of Tantalus, according to Pindar, was that he offered to his guests the ambrosia of the Deathless Ones, a theft akin to that of Prometheus, Karl Kerenyi noted (in Heroes of the Greeks). In the Homeric hymn to Aphrodite, the goddess uses "ambrosial bridal oil that she had ready perfumed." In the story of Eros and Psyche as told by Apuleius, Psyche is given ambrosia upon her completion of the quests set by Aphrodite and her acceptance on Olympus. After she partakes, she and Eros are wed as gods. In the Aeneid, Aeneas encounters his mother in an alternate, or illusory form. When she became her godly form "Her hair's ambrosia breathed a holy fragrance." Ambrosia (nymph) Lycurgus, king of Thrace, forbade the cult of Dionysus, whom he drove from Thrace, and attacked the gods' entourage when they celebrated the god. Among them was Ambrosia, who turned herself into a grapevine to hide from his wrath. Dionysus, enraged by the king's actions, drove him mad. In his fit of insanity he killed his son, whom he mistook for a stock of ivy, and then himself. See also Elixir of life, a potion sought by alchemy to produce immortality Ichor, blood of the Greek gods, related to ambrosia Iðunn's apples in Norse mythology Manna, food given by God to the Israelites Peaches of Immortality in Chinese mythology Pill of Immortality Silphium Soma and Haoma, a ritual drink of importance among the early Vedic peoples and Indo-Iranians. References Sources Clay, Jenny Strauss, "Immortal and ageless forever", The Classical Journal 77.2 (December 1981:pp. 112–117). Ruck, Carl A.P. and Danny Staples, The World of Classical Myth 1994, p. 26 et seq. Wright, F. A., "The Food of the Gods", The Classical Review 31.1, (February 1917:4–6). External links Ancient Greek cuisine Fictional food and drink Mount Olympus Mythological medicines and drugs Mythological food and drink Immortality Thetis Achilles
Ambracia (; , occasionally , Ampracia) was a city of ancient Greece on the site of modern Arta. It was founded by the Corinthians in 625 BC and was situated about from the Ambracian Gulf, on a bend of the navigable river Arachthos (or Aratthus), in the midst of a fertile wooded plain. History Ambracia was founded between 650 and 625 BC by Gorgus, son of the Corinthian tyrant Cypselus, at which time its economy was based on farmlands, fishing, timber for shipbuilding, and the exportation of the produce of Epirus. After the expulsion of Gorgus's son Periander its government developed into a strong democracy. The early policy of Ambracia was determined by its loyalty to Corinth (for which it probably served as an entrepot in the Epirus trade), and its consequent aversion to Corcyra (as Ambracia participated on the Corinthian side at the Battle of Sybota, which took place in 433 BC between the rebellious Corinthian colony of Corcyra (modern Corfu) and Corinth). Ambraciot politics featured many frontier disputes with the Amphilochians and Acarnanians. Hence it took a prominent part in the Peloponnesian War until the crushing defeat at Idomene (426), which crippled its resources. In the 4th century BC it continued its traditional policy, but in 338 was besieged by Philip II of Macedon. With the assistance of Corinth and Athens, it escaped complete domination at Philip's hands, but was nevertheless forced to accept a Macedonian garrison. In 294 BC, after forty-three years of semi-autonomy under Macedonian suzerainty, Ambracia was given by the son of Cassander to Pyrrhus, king of Epirus, who made it his capital, and adorned it with palace, temples and theatres. In the wars of Philip V of Macedon and the Epirotes against the Aetolian League (220–205) Ambracia passed from one alliance to the other, but ultimately joined the latter confederacy. During the struggle of the Aetolians against Rome, it stood a stubborn siege, including the first known use of poison gas against the Romans' siege tunnels. Ambracia was captured and plundered by Marcus Fulvius Nobilior in 189 BC, after which it was declared by Rome a "free city", and gradually fell into insignificance. The foundation by Augustus of Nicopolis, into which the remaining inhabitants were drafted, left the site desolate. In Byzantine times a new settlement took its place under the name of Arta. Some fragmentary walls of large, well-dressed blocks near this latter town indicate the early prosperity of Ambracia. Ambraciotes Artists Epigonus of Ambracia, 6th BC musician Nicocles, auletes Hippasus, tragic actor Epicrates of Ambracia, c. 4th BC comic poet Athletes Sophron, Stadion Olympics 432 BC Tlasimachus, Tethrippon and Synoris Olympics 296 BC Andromachus, Stadion Olympics 60 BC Various Silanus of Ambracia, 5th BC seer Cleombrotus of Ambracia, student of Plato See also List of cities in ancient Epirus List of ancient Greek cities References Attribution: Cities in ancient Epirus Populated places established in the 7th century BC Corinthian colonies Former populated places in Greece Populated places in ancient Acarnania Populated places in ancient Epirus Pyrrhus of Epirus Archaeological sites in Epirus (region) Arta, Greece
Amalaric (; Spanish and Portuguese: Amalarico; 502–531) was king of the Visigoths from 522 until his assassination. He was a son of king Alaric II and his first wife Theodegotha, daughter of Theodoric the Great. Biography When Alaric II was killed while fighting Clovis I, king of the Franks, in the Battle of Vouillé (507), his kingdom fell into disarray. "More serious than the destruction of the Gothic army," writes Herwig Wolfram, "than the loss of both Aquitanian provinces and the capital of Toulose, was the death of the king." Alaric had made no provision for a successor, and although he had two sons, one was of age but illegitimate and the other, Amalaric, the offspring of a legal marriage but still a child. Amalaric was carried for safety into Spain, which country and Provence were thenceforth ruled by his maternal grandfather, Theodoric the Great, acting through his vice-regent, an Ostrogothic nobleman named Theudis. The older son, Gesalec, was chosen as king but his reign was disastrous. King Theodoric of the Ostrogoths sent an army, led by his sword-bearer Theudis, against Gesalec, ostensibly on behalf of Amalaric; Gesalec fled to Africa. The Ostrogoths then drove back the Franks and their Burgundian allies, regaining possession of "the south of Novempopulana, Rodez, probably even Albi, and even Toulose". Following the 511 death of Clovis, Theodoric negotiated a peace with Clovis' successors, securing Visigothic control of the southernmost portion of Gaul for the rest of the existence of their kingdom. In 522, the young Amalaric was proclaimed king, and four years later, on Theodoric's death, he assumed full royal power, although relinquishing Provence to his cousin Athalaric. His kingdom was faced with a Frankish threat from the north; according to Peter Heather, this was his motivation for marrying Chrotilda, the daughter of Clovis. However, this was not successful, for according to Gregory of Tours, Amalaric pressured her to forsake Orthodoxy and convert to Arian Christianity, at one point beating her until she bled; she sent to her brother Childebert I, king of Paris, a towel stained with her own blood. It is worth noting Ian Wood's advice that although Gregory provides the fullest information for this period, where it touches Merovingian affairs, he often "allowed his religious bias to determine his interpretation of the events." Peter Heather agrees with Wood's implication in this instance: "I doubt that this is the full story, but the effects of Frankish intervention are clear enough." Childebert defeated the Visigothic army and took Narbonne. Amalaric fled south to Barcelona, where according to Isidore of Seville, he was assassinated by his own men. According to Peter Heather, Theodoric's former governor Theudis was implicated in Amalaric's murder, "and was certainly its prime beneficiary." As for Chrotilda, in Gregory's words, she died on the journey home "by some ill chance". Childebert had her body brought to Paris where she was buried alongside her father Clovis. Notes External links Further reading Edward Gibbon, History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, Chapter 39 502 births 531 deaths Balt dynasty Assassinated Gothic people 6th-century murdered monarchs 6th-century Visigothic monarchs Year of birth unknown
The family Alligatoridae of crocodylians includes alligators, caimans and their extinct relatives. Phylogeny The superfamily Alligatoroidea includes all crocodilians (fossil and extant) that are more closely related to the American alligator than to either the Nile crocodile or the gharial. This is a stem-based definition for alligators, and is more inclusive than the crown group Alligatoridae. As a crown group, Alligatoridae only includes the last common ancestor of all extant (living) alligators, caimans, and their descendants (living or extinct), whereas Alligatoroidea, as a stem-based group, also includes more basal extinct alligator ancestors that are more closely related to living alligators than to crocodiles or gavialids. When considering only living taxa (neontology), this makes Alligatoroidea and Alligatoridae redundant. The simplified cladogram below shows Alligatoridae's relationships to other extant (living) crocodilians. The below detailed cladogram shows one proposal for the internal relationships within Alligatoridae (although the exact alligatoroid phylogeny is still disputed). Evolution The superfamily Alligatoroidea is thought to have split from the crocodile-gharial lineage in the late Cretaceous, about 87 million years ago. Leidyosuchus of Alberta is the earliest known genus. Fossil alligatoroids have been found throughout Eurasia as land bridges across both the North Atlantic and the Bering Strait have connected North America to Eurasia during the Cretaceous, Paleogene, and Neogene periods. Alligators and caimans split in North America during the early Tertiary or late Cretaceous (about 53 million to about 65 million years ago) and the latter reached South America by the Paleogene, before the closure of the Isthmus of Panama during the Neogene period. The Chinese alligator split from the American alligator about 33 million years ago and likely descended from a lineage that crossed the Bering land bridge during the Neogene. The modern American alligator is well represented in the fossil record of the Pleistocene. The alligator's full mitochondrial genome was sequenced in the 1990s. The full genome, published in 2014, suggests that the alligator evolved much more slowly than mammals and birds. True alligators The lineage including alligators proper (Alligatorinae) occurs in the fluvial deposits of the age of the Upper Chalk in Europe, where they did not die out until the Pliocene age. The true alligators are today represented by two species, A. mississippiensis in the southeastern United States, which can grow to 15.6 ft (4.6 m) and weigh 1000 lbs(453 kg), with unverified sizes of up to 19.2 ft(5.9 m). And the small A. sinensis in the Yangtze River, China, which grows to an average of 5 ft (1.5 m). Their name derives from the Spanish el lagarto, which means "the lizard". Caimans In Central and South America, the alligator family is represented by six species of the subfamily Caimaninae, which differ from the alligator by the absence of a bony septum between the nostrils, and having ventral armour composed of overlapping bony scutes, each of which is formed of two parts united by a suture. Besides the three species in Caiman, the smooth-fronted caimans in genus Paleosuchus and the black caiman in Melanosuchus are described. Caimans tend to be more agile and crocodile-like in their movements, and have longer, sharper teeth than alligators. C. crocodilus, the spectacled caiman, has the widest distribution, from southern Mexico to the northern half of Argentina, and grows to a modest size of about . The largest is the near-threatened Melanosuchus niger, the jacaré-açu or large or black caiman of the Amazon River basin. Black caimans grow to , with the unverified size of up to . The black caiman and American alligator are the only members of the alligator family that pose the same danger to humans as the larger species of the crocodile family. Although caimans have not been studied in depth, scientists have learned their mating cycles (previously thought to be spontaneous or year-round) are linked to the rainfall cycles and the river levels, which increases chances of survival for their offspring. Taxonomy † = extinct Family Alligatoridae Subfamily Alligatorinae Genus Alligator † Alligator hailensis † Alligator mcgrewi † Alligator mefferdi Alligator mississippiensis, American alligator † Alligator olseni † Alligator prenasalis Alligator sinensis, Chinese alligator † Alligator thomsoni Genus † Allognathosuchus Genus † Arambourgia Genus † Ceratosuchus Genus † Chrysochampsa Genus † Eoalligator Genus † Hassiacosuchus Genus † Krabisuchus Genus † Navajosuchus? Genus † Procaimanoidea Genus † Wannaganosuchus Subfamily Caimaninae Genus † Acresuchus Genus † Bottosaurus Genus Caiman † Caiman brevirostris Caiman crocodilus, Spectacled caiman Caiman latirostris, Broad-snouted caiman † Caiman lutescans † Caiman venezuelensis † Caiman wannlangstoni Caiman yacare, Yacare caiman Genus † Centenariosuchus Genus † Chinatichampsus Genus † Culebrasuchus Genus † Eocaiman Genus † Globidentosuchus Genus † Gnatusuchus Genus † Kuttanacaiman Genus Melanosuchus † Melanosuchus fisheri Melanosuchus niger, Black caiman Genus † Mourasuchus Genus † Necrosuchus Genus † Orthogenysuchus Genus Paleosuchus Paleosuchus palpebrosus, Cuvier's dwarf caiman Paleosuchus trigonatus, Smooth-fronted caiman Genus † Protocaiman Genus † Purussaurus Genus † Tsoabichi References External links "Crocodilians: Natural History & Conservation" crocodilian.com "Family Alligatoridae Gray 1844 (alligator)", fossilworks.org. Taxa named by John Edward Gray Reptile families Extant Campanian first appearances
Arachnophobia is a specific phobia brought about by the irrational fear of spiders and other arachnids such as scorpions and ticks. The word Arachnophobia comes from the Greek words arachne and phobia. Signs and symptoms People with arachnophobia tend to feel uneasy in any area they believe could harbour spiders or that has visible signs of their presence, such as webs. If arachnophobes see a spider, they may not enter the general vicinity until they have overcome the panic attack that is often associated with their phobia. Some people scream, cry, have emotional outbursts, experience trouble breathing, sweat and experience increased heart rates when they come in contact with an area near spiders or their webs. In some extreme cases, even a picture, a toy, or a realistic drawing of a spider can trigger intense fear. Reasons Arachnophobia may be an exaggerated form of an instinctive response that helped early humans to survive or a cultural phenomenon that is most common in predominantly European societies. Evolutionary An evolutionary reason for the phobia remains unresolved. One view, especially held in evolutionary psychology, is that the presence of venomous spiders led to the evolution of a fear of spiders, or made acquisition of a fear of spiders especially easy. Like all traits, there is variability in the intensity of fear of spiders, and those with more intense fears are classified as phobic. Being relatively small, spiders do not fit the usual criterion for a threat in the animal kingdom where size is a factor, but they can have medically significant venom and/or cause skin irritation with their setae. However, a phobia is an irrational fear as opposed to a rational fear. By ensuring that their surroundings were free from spiders, arachnophobes would have had a reduced risk of being bitten in ancestral environments, giving them a slight advantage over non-arachnophobes in terms of survival. However, having a disproportionate fear of spiders in comparison to other, potentially dangerous creatures present during Homo sapiens environment of evolutionary adaptiveness may have had drawbacks. In The Handbook of the Emotions (1993), psychologist Arne Öhman studied pairing an unconditioned stimulus with evolutionarily-relevant fear-response neutral stimuli (snakes and spiders) versus evolutionarily-irrelevant fear-response neutral stimuli (mushrooms, flowers, physical representation of polyhedra, firearms, and electrical outlets) on human subjects and found that ophidiophobia (fear of snakes) and arachnophobia required only one pairing to develop a conditioned response while mycophobia, anthophobia, phobias of physical representations of polyhedra, firearms, and electrical outlets required multiple pairings and went extinct without continued conditioning while the conditioned ophidiophobia and arachnophobia were permanent. Psychiatrist Randolph M. Nesse notes that while conditioned fear responses to evolutionarily novel dangerous objects such as electrical outlets is possible, the conditioning is slower because such cues have no prewired connection to fear, noting further that despite the emphasis of the risks of speeding and drunk driving in driver's education, it alone does not provide reliable protection against traffic collisions and that nearly one-quarter of all deaths in 2014 of people aged 15 to 24 in the United States were in traffic collisions. Nesse, psychiatrist Isaac Marks, and evolutionary biologist George C. Williams have noted that people with systematically deficient responses to various adaptive phobias (e.g. arachnophobia, ophidiophobia, basophobia) are more temperamentally careless and more likely to receive unintentional injuries that are potentially fatal and have proposed that such deficient phobia should be classified as "hypophobia'" due to its selfish genetic consequences. A 2001 study found that people could detect images of spiders among images of flowers and mushrooms more quickly than they could detect images of flowers or mushrooms among images of spiders. The researchers suggested that this was because fast response to spiders was more relevant to human evolution. Cultural An alternative view is that the dangers, such as from spiders, are overrated and not sufficient to influence evolution. Instead, inheriting phobias would have restrictive and debilitating effects upon survival, rather than being an aid. For some communities, such as in Papua New Guinea and Cambodia, spiders are included in traditional foods. This suggests arachnophobia may, at least in part, be a cultural, rather than genetic trait. Stories about spiders in the media often contain errors and use sensationalistic vocabulary, which could contribute to the fear of spiders. Treatments The fear of spiders can be treated by any of the general techniques suggested for specific phobias. The first line of treatment is systematic desensitization – also known as exposure therapy. Before engaging in systematic desensitization, it is common to train the individual with arachnophobia in relaxation techniques, which will help keep the patient calm. Systematic desensitization can be done in vivo (with live spiders) or by getting the individual to imagine situations involving spiders, then modelling interaction with spiders for the person affected and eventually interacting with real spiders. This technique can be effective in just one session, although it generally takes more time. Recent advances in technology have enabled the use of virtual or augmented reality spiders for use in therapy. These techniques have proven to be effective. It has been suggested that exposure to short clips from the Spider-Man movies may help to reduce an individual's arachnophobia. Epidemiology Arachnophobia affects 3.5 to 6.1 percent of the global population. See also Apiphobia, fear of bees Entomophobia, fear of insects Myrmecophobia, fear of ants References External links National Geographic: "Fear of Snakes, Spiders Rooted in Evolution, Study Finds" Zoophobias Arachnids and humans Spiders and humans
In the realm of electronic technology, ASIC stands for application-specific integrated circuit, an integrated circuit customized for a specific task. ASIC may also refer to: Accreditation Service for International Colleges, an educational accreditation agency in the UK Acid-sensing ion channels, a protein family Air and Space Interoperability Council , former name of the Air Force Interoperability Council Arfoire Syndicate of International Crime, the antagonist group in the video game Hyperdimension Neptunia mk2 ASIC programming language, a dialect of BASIC Associated Signature Containers (ASiC), specifies the use of container structures to bind together one or more signed objects with either advanced electronic signatures or time-stamp tokens into one single digital container Association Scientifique Internationale pour le Café, a scientific organization based in France Australian Securities & Investments Commission, Australia's corporate regulator Aviation Security Identification Card, an Australian identification card See also Asics, an athletic equipment company
Dasyproctidae is a family of large South American rodents, comprising the agoutis and acouchis. Their fur is a reddish or dark colour above, with a paler underside. They are herbivorous, often feeding on ripe fruit that falls from trees. They live in burrows, and, like squirrels, will bury some of their food for later use. Dasyproctids exist in Central and South America, which are the tropical parts of the New World. The fossil record of this family can be traced back to the Late Oligocene (Deseadan in the SALMA classification). As with all rodents, members of this family have incisors, pre-molars, and molars, but no canines. The cheek teeth are hypsodont and flat-crowned. Classification Fossil taxa follow McKenna and Bell, with modifications following Kramarz. Family Dasyproctidae Genus †Alloiomys Genus †Australoprocta Genus †Branisamys Genus †Incamys Genus †Neoreomys Genus †Megastus Genus †Palmiramys Genus Dasyprocta Azara's agouti, D. azarae Coiban agouti, D. coibae Crested agouti, D. cristata Black agouti, D. fuliginosa Orinoco agouti, D. guamara Kalinowski's agouti, D. kalinowskii Red-rumped agouti, D. leporina Mexican agouti, D. mexicana Black-rumped agouti, D. prymnolopha Central American agouti, D. punctata Ruatan Island agouti, D. ruatanica Genus Myoprocta Green acouchi, M. pratti Red acouchi, M. acouchy The pacas (genus Cuniculus) are placed by some authorities in Dasyproctidae, but molecular studies have demonstrated they do not form a monophyletic group. References External links Central American agouti at Smithsonian Dasyproctidae at Animaldiversity.org 2014 - Figueira et al. - Carrion consumption by Dasyprocta leporina (Rodentia: Dasyproctidae) and a review of meat use by agoutis Hystricognath rodents Rodent families Extant Chattian first appearances Mammals described in 1825
AV, Av or A.V. may refer to: Arts and entertainment The abbreviation of audiovisual, possessing both a sound and a visual component A.V. (film), a 2005 Hong Kong film directed by Pang Ho-Cheung Adult video, an alternative name/synonym of a pornographic film AV The Hunt, a 2020 Turkish thriller film directed by Emre Akay Businesses and organizations America Votes, an American 501(c)4 organization that promotes progressive causes Ambulance Victoria, an ambulance service operated in the Australian state of Victoria Anonymous for the Voiceless, a grassroots animal rights organization specializing in street activism Aston Villa F.C., an English professional football club AV Akademikerverlag GmbH & Co. KG an imprint of the German group VDM Publishing (now OmniScriptum) Avaya, a technology company formerly listed on the New York Stock Exchange with symbol "AV" Avianca (IATA airline code AV) Aviva, British insurance company, listed on the New York Stock Exchange and London Stock Exchange as "AV" AeroVironment, manufacturer of unmanned military aircraft and systems Amusement Vision, the former name of Ryu Ga Gotoku Studio People Av or Avrum Gross (1936–2018), American lawyer and Attorney General of Alaska Av or Avrom Isaacs (1926–2016), Canadian art dealer Av Westin (1929–2022), American television producer Places Anguilla (FIPS country code and obsolete NATO diagram AV) Antelope Valley, a valley in Southern California Province of Avellino, a province of Italy Science and technology Anatomy and medicine Aerobic vaginitis, vaginal infection associated with overgrowth of aerobic bacteria Arteriovenous (disambiguation) Atrioventricular (disambiguation) Electronics and computing Access violation, a computer software error Age verification, system for checking a user's age Antivirus software, used to prevent, detect and remove malicious software Audio and video connector, a cable between two devices Analog video AV Linux, a Linux-based operating system Fluid dynamics Annular velocity, speed of the drilling fluid's movement in a column called an annulus in oil wells Apparent viscosity, shear stress divided by shear rate Vehicles AV (cyclecar), a British cyclecar manufactured between 1919 and 1924 Bavarian A V, an 1853 steam locomotive model AV, the designation for seaplane tender in the United States Navy's ship classification system Autonomous vehicles Other uses in science and technology A-type main-sequence star, in astronomy, abbreviated A V Aperture value mode, setting on photo cameras that allows to choose a specific aperture value Other uses Alternative vote, an electoral system used to elect a single winner from a field of more than two candidates Approval voting, a non-ranking vote system Authorised Version of the Bible (also known as King James Version) Av, a month in the Hebrew calendar av, the Avar language's ISO 639-1 code Av. or Ave, an abbreviation for Avenue (landscape) Ꜹ or AV from Latin aurum (avrvm), a numismatic abbreviation for "gold" A.V., the putative mark of ébéniste Adam Weisweiler Aviation, abbreviated Av in military use Andhra Vidyalaya College, aka A. V. College, a school in Hyderabad, India See also 2023 AV, an asteroid that passed closed to the Earth in 2023 A5 (disambiguation) α5 (disambiguation) AV idol, a type of Japanese porn star Masculine given names Hypocorisms
Angilbert ( – 18 February 814) was a noble Frankish poet who was educated under Alcuin and served Charlemagne as a secretary, diplomat, and son-in-law. He is venerated as a pre-Congregation saint and is still honored on the day of his death, 18 February. Life Angilbert seems to have been brought up at the court of Charlemagne at the palace school in Aquae Granni (Aachen). He was educated there as the pupil and then friend of the great English scholar Alcuin. When Charlemagne sent his young son Pepin to Italy as King of the Lombards, Angilbert went along as primicerius palatii, a high administrator of the satellite court. As the friend and adviser of Pepin, he assisted for a while in the government of Italy. Angilbert delivered the document on Iconoclasm from the Frankish Synod of Frankfurt to Pope Adrian I, and was later sent on three important embassies to the pope, in 792, 794, and 796. At one time, he served an officer of the maritime provinces. He accompanied Charlemagne to Rome in 800 and was one of the witnesses to his will in 811. There are various traditions concerning Angilbert's relationship with Bertha, daughter of Charlemagne. One holds that they were married, another that they were not. They had, however, at least two sons and one daughter, one of whom, Nithard, became a notable figure in the mid-9th century, while their daughter Bertha went on to marry Helgaud II, count of Ponthieu. Control of marriage and the meanings of legitimacy were hotly contested in the Middle Ages. Bertha and Angilbert are an example of how resistance to the idea of a sacramental marriage could coincide with holding church offices. On the other hand, some historians have speculated that Charlemagne opposed formal marriages for his daughters out of concern for political rivalries from their potential husbands; none of Charlemagne's daughters were married, despite political offers of arranged marriages. In 790, Angilbert retired to the abbey of Centulum, the "Monastery of St Richarius" () at present-day Saint-Riquier in Picardy. Elected abbot in 794, he rebuilt the monastery and endowed it with a library of 200 volumes. It was not uncommon for the Merovingian, Carolingian, or later kings to make laymen abbots of monasteries; the layman would often use the income of the monastery as his own and leave the monks a bare minimum for the necessary expenses of the foundation. Angilbert, in contrast, spent a great deal rebuilding Saint-Riquier; when he completed it, Charlemagne spent Easter of the year 800 there. In keeping with Carolingian policies, Angilbert established a school at Saint-Riquier to educate the local boys. Poetry Angilbert's Latin poems reveal the culture and tastes of a man of the world, enjoying the closest intimacy with the imperial family. Charlemagne and the other men at court were known by affectionate and jesting nicknames. Charlemagne was referred to as "David", a reference to the Biblical king David. Angilbert was nicknamed "Homer" because he wrote poetry, and was the probable author of an epic, of which the fragment which has been preserved describes the life at the palace and the meeting between Charlemagne and Leo III. It is a mosaic from Virgil, Ovid, Lucan and Venantius Fortunatus, composed in the manner of Einhard's use of Suetonius. Of the shorter poems, besides the greeting to Pippin on his return from the campaign against the Avars (796), an epistle to David (i.e., Charlemagne) incidentally reveals a delightful picture of the poet living with his children in a house surrounded by pleasant gardens near the emperor's palace. The reference to Bertha, however, is distant and respectful, her name occurring merely on the list of princesses to whom he sends his salutation. The poem De conversione Saxonum has been attributed to Angilbert. Angilbert's poems were published by Ernst Dümmler in the Monumenta Germaniae Historica. For criticisms of this edition, see Ludwig Traube in Max Roediger's Schriften für germanische Philologie (1888). Notes References . . Attribution Further reading A. Molinier, Les Sources de l'histoire de France. 8th-century births Year of birth unknown 814 deaths Medieval Latin poets Saints from the Carolingian Empire 8th-century writers in Latin 8th-century Frankish writers
In organic chemistry, an amide, also known as an organic amide or a carboxamide, is a compound with the general formula , where R, R', and R″ represent any group, typically organyl groups or hydrogen atoms. The amide group is called a peptide bond when it is part of the main chain of a protein, and an isopeptide bond when it occurs in a side chain, such as in the amino acids asparagine and glutamine. It can be viewed as a derivative of a carboxylic acid () with the hydroxyl group () replaced by an amine group (); or, equivalently, an acyl (alkanoyl) group () joined to an amine group. Common of amides are formamide (), acetamide (), benzamide (), and dimethylformamide (). Some uncommon examples of amides are N-chloroacetamide () and chloroformamide (). Amides are qualified as primary, secondary, and tertiary according to whether the amine subgroup has the form , , or , where R and R' are groups other than hydrogen. Nomenclature The core of amides is called the amide group (specifically, carboxamide group). In the usual nomenclature, one adds the term "amide" to the stem of the parent acid's name. For instance, the amide derived from acetic acid is named acetamide (CH3CONH2). IUPAC recommends ethanamide, but this and related formal names are rarely encountered. When the amide is derived from a primary or secondary amine, the substituents on nitrogen are indicated first in the name. Thus, the amide formed from dimethylamine and acetic acid is N,N-dimethylacetamide (CH3CONMe2, where Me = CH3). Usually even this name is simplified to dimethylacetamide. Cyclic amides are called lactams; they are necessarily secondary or tertiary amides. Applications Amides are pervasive in nature and technology. Proteins and important plastics like Nylons, Aramid, Twaron, and Kevlar are polymers whose units are connected by amide groups (polyamides); these linkages are easily formed, confer structural rigidity, and resist hydrolysis. Amides include many other important biological compounds, as well as many drugs like paracetamol, penicillin and LSD. Low-molecular-weight amides, such as dimethylformamide, are common solvents. Structure and bonding The lone pair of electrons on the nitrogen atom is delocalized into the carbonyl group, thus forming a partial double bond between nitrogen and carbon. In fact the O, C and N atoms have molecular orbitals occupied by delocalized electrons, forming a conjugated system. Consequently, the three bonds of the nitrogen in amides is not pyramidal (as in the amines) but planar. This planar restriction prevents rotations about the N linkage and thus has important consequences for the mechanical properties of bulk material of such molecules, and also for the configurational properties of macromolecules built by such bonds. The inability to rotate distinguishes amide groups from ester groups which allow rotation and thus create more flexible bulk material. The C-C(O)NR2 core of amides is planar. The C=O distance is shorter than the C-N distance by almost 10%. The structure of an amide can be described also as a resonance between two alternative structures: neutral (A) and zwitterionic (B). It is estimated that for acetamide, structure A makes a 62% contribution to the structure, while structure B makes a 28% contribution. (These figures do not sum to 100% because there are additional less-important resonance forms that are not depicted above). There is also a hydrogen bond present between the active groups hydrogen and nitrogen atoms. Resonance is largely prevented in the very strained quinuclidone. In their IR spectra, amides exhibit a moderately intense νCO band near 1650 cm−1. The energy of this band is about 60 cm-1 lower than for the νCO of esters and ketones. This difference reflects the contribution of the zwitterionic resonance structure. Basicity Compared to amines, amides are very weak bases. While the conjugate acid of an amine has a pKa of about 9.5, the conjugate acid of an amide has a pKa around −0.5. Therefore, amides do not have as clearly noticeable acid–base properties in water. This relative lack of basicity is explained by the withdrawing of electrons from the amine by the carbonyl. On the other hand, amides are much stronger bases than carboxylic acids, esters, aldehydes, and ketones (their conjugate acids' pKas are between −6 and −10). The proton of a primary or secondary amide does not dissociate readily; its pKa is usually well above 15. Conversely, under extremely acidic conditions, the carbonyl oxygen can become protonated with a pKa of roughly −1. It is not only because of the positive charge on the nitrogen, but also because of the negative charge on the oxygen gained through resonance. Hydrogen bonding and solubility Because of the greater electronegativity of oxygen, the carbonyl (C=O) is a stronger dipole than the N–C dipole. The presence of a C=O dipole and, to a lesser extent a N–C dipole, allows amides to act as H-bond acceptors. In primary and secondary amides, the presence of N–H dipoles allows amides to function as H-bond donors as well. Thus amides can participate in hydrogen bonding with water and other protic solvents; the oxygen atom can accept hydrogen bonds from water and the N–H hydrogen atoms can donate H-bonds. As a result of interactions such as these, the water solubility of amides is greater than that of corresponding hydrocarbons. These hydrogen bonds are also have an important role in the secondary structure of proteins. The solubilities of amides and esters are roughly comparable. Typically amides are less soluble than comparable amines and carboxylic acids since these compounds can both donate and accept hydrogen bonds. Tertiary amides, with the important exception of N,N-dimethylformamide, exhibit low solubility in water. Reactions Amides undergo many chemical reactions, although they are less reactive than esters. Amides hydrolyse in hot alkali as well as in strong acidic conditions. Acidic conditions yield the carboxylic acid and the ammonium ion while basic hydrolysis yield the carboxylate ion and ammonia. The protonation of the initially generated amine under acidic conditions and the deprotonation of the initially generated carboxylic acid under basic conditions render these processes non-catalytic and irreversible. Amides are also versatile precursors to many other functional groups. Electrophiles react with the carbonyl oxygen. This step often precedes hydrolysis, which is catalyzed by both Brønsted acids and Lewis acids. Enzymes, e.g. peptidases and artificial catalysts, are known to accelerate the hydrolysis reactions. Synthesis From carboxylic acids and related compounds Amides are usually prepared by coupling carboxylic acid with an amine. The direct reaction generally requires high temperatures to drive off the water: A set of common methods involve "activating" the carboxylic acid by converting it to a better electrophile. Thus, esters, acid chlorides (Schotten-Baumann reaction), or anhydrides (Lumière–Barbier method) all react with amines to give amides: Peptide synthesis use coupling agents such as HATU, HOBt, or PyBOP. From nitriles The hydrolysis of nitriles is conducted on an industrial scale to produce fatty amines. Laboratory procedures are also available. Specialty routes Many specialized methods also yield amides. A variety of reagents, e.g. tris(2,2,2-trifluoroethyl) borate have been developed for specialized applications. See also Amidogen Amino radical Amidicity Imidic acid Metal amides References External links IUPAC Compendium of Chemical Terminology Functional groups
The Aare () or Aar () is a tributary of the High Rhine and the longest river that both rises and ends entirely within Switzerland. Its total length from its source to its junction with the Rhine comprises about , during which distance it descends , draining an area of , almost entirely within Switzerland, and accounting for close to half the area of the country, including all of Central Switzerland. There are more than 40 hydroelectric plants along the course of the Aare. The river's name dates to at least the La Tène period, and it is attested as Nantaror "Aare valley" in the Berne zinc tablet. The name was Latinized as Arula/Arola/Araris. Course The Aare rises in the great Aargletschers (Aare Glaciers) of the Bernese Alps, in the canton of Bern and west of the Grimsel Pass. The Finsteraargletscher and Lauteraargletscher come together to form the Unteraargletscher (Lower Aar Glacier), which is the main source of water for the Grimselsee (Lake of Grimsel). The Oberaargletscher (Upper Aar Glacier) feeds the Oberaarsee, which also flows into the Grimselsee. The Aare leaves the Grimselsee just to the east to the Grimsel Hospiz, below the Grimsel Pass, and then flows northwest through the Haslital, forming on the way the magnificent Handegg Waterfall, , past Guttannen. Right after Innertkirchen it is joined by its first major tributary, the Gamderwasser. Less than later the river carves through a limestone ridge in the Aare Gorge (). It is here that the Aare proves itself to be more than just a river, as it attracts thousands of tourists annually to the causeways through the gorge. A little past Meiringen, near Brienz, the river expands into Lake Brienz. Near the west end of the lake it indirectly receives its first important tributary, the Lütschine, by the Lake of Brienz. It then runs across the swampy plain of the Bödeli (Swiss German diminutive for ground) between Interlaken and Unterseen before flowing into Lake Thun. Near the west end of Lake Thun, the river indirectly receives the waters of the Kander, which has just been joined by the Simme, by the Lake of Thun. Lake Thun marks the head of navigation. On flowing out of the lake it passes through Thun, and then flows through the city of Bern, passing beneath eighteen bridges and around the steeply-flanked peninsula on which the Old City is located. To the south of the Old City peninsula is the , a weir which provides water for the small Matte hydroelectric power plant. River swimming in the Aare is popular in Bern, and the river is sometimes full of bathers on summer days. The river soon changes its northwesterly flow for a due westerly direction, but after receiving the Saane or La Sarine it turns north until it nears Aarberg. There, in one of the major Swiss engineering feats of the 19th century, the Jura water correction, the river, which had previously rendered the countryside north of Bern a swampland through frequent flooding, was diverted by the Aare-Hagneck Canal into the Lac de Bienne. From the upper end of the lake, at Nidau, the river issues through the Nidau-Büren Canal, also called the Aare Canal, and then runs east to Büren. The lake absorbs huge amounts of eroded gravel and snowmelt that the river brings from the Alps, and the former swamps have become fruitful plains: they are known as the "vegetable garden of Switzerland". From here the Aare flows northeast for a long distance, past the ambassador town Solothurn (below which the Grosse Emme flows in on the right), Aarburg (where it is joined by the Wigger), Olten, Aarau, near which is the junction with the Suhre, and Wildegg, where the Seetal Aabach falls in on the right. A short distance further, below Brugg, it receives first the Reuss, its major tributary, and shortly afterwards the Limmat, its second strongest tributary. It now turns due north, and soon becomes itself a tributary of the Rhine, which it even surpasses in volume when the two rivers unite downstream from Koblenz (Switzerland), opposite Waldshut in Germany. The Rhine, in turn, empties into the North Sea after crossing into the Netherlands. Tributaries Limmat (after and northeast of Brugg, and northwest of Baden) Reppisch Sihl Alp Minster Lake Zurich Linthkanal Lake Walen Linth Löntsch Sernf Flätschbach Seez Reuss (after and northeast of Brugg, and northwest of Baden) Lorze Kleine Emme Lake Lucerne Sarner Aa Engelberger Aa Muota Schächen Chärstelenbach Göschener Reuss Aabach (coming from Seetal, in Wildegg) Bünz Suhre (after and north of Aarau) Wyna Aabach (from the left in Aarau) Stegbach Dünnern (in Olten) Wigger (right before Aarburg) Murg (before, west of Murgenthal) Rot (Roggwil) Langete (Langenthal) Ursenbach (Kleindietwil) Rotbach (Huttwil) (Grosse) Emme (after, east of Solothurn) Lake of Bienne La Suze (in Biel/Bienne, right next to the outflow) Zihlkanal Lake of Neuchatel La Broye (flows through Lake Morat) Zihl/La Thielle L'Orbe Le Talent Saane/La Sarine (after, west of Wohlensee) Sense Gürbe (in Muri bei Bern) Zulg (west of Steffisburg) Lake Thun Kander (west of Spiez) Simme Entschlige Lake Brienz Lütschine (at the end of Lake Brienz, right next to the outflow) Gadmerwasser (right after, northwest of Innertkirchen) Reservoirs Lake Grimsel, Lake Brienz, Lake Thun, Lake Wohlen, Niederriedsee, Lake Biel, Klingnauer Stausee, Notes Footnotes References External links The Aare Gorge (Aareschlucht) Rivers of Switzerland Rivers of the canton of Bern Rivers of Aargau Water transport in Switzerland Rivers of the Alps
Abbotsford is a historic country house in the Scottish Borders, near Galashiels, on the south bank of the River Tweed. Now open to the public, it was built as the residence of historical novelist and poet Sir Walter Scott between 1817 and 1825. It is a Category A Listed Building and the estate is listed in the Inventory of Gardens and Designed Landscapes in Scotland. Description The nucleus of the estate was a farm of , called Cartleyhole, nicknamed Clarty (i.e., muddy) Hole, and was bought by Scott on the lapse of his lease (1811) of the neighbouring house of Ashestiel. Scott renamed it "Abbotsford" after a neighbouring ford used by the monks of Melrose Abbey. Following a modest enlargement of the original farmhouse in 1811–1812, massive expansions took place in 1816–1819 and 1822–1824. In this mansion Scott gathered a large library, a collection of ancient furniture, arms and armour, and other relics and curiosities especially connected with Scottish history, notably the Celtic Torrs Pony-cap and Horns and the Woodwrae Stone, all now in the Museum of Scotland. Scott described the resulting building as "a sort of romance in Architecture" and "a kind of Conundrum Castle to be sure". The last and principal acquisition was that of Toftfield (afterwards named Huntlyburn), purchased in 1817. The new house was then begun and completed in 1824. The general ground-plan is a parallelogram, with irregular outlines, one side overlooking the Tweed; and the style is mainly the Scottish Baronial. With his architects William Atkinson and Edward Blore Scott was a pioneer of the Scottish Baronial style of architecture: the house is recognized as a highly influential creation with themes from Abbotsford being reflected across many buildings in the Scottish Borders and beyond. The manor as a whole appears as a "castle-in-miniature", with small towers and imitation battlements decorating the house and garden walls. Into various parts of the fabric were built relics and curiosities from historical structures, such as the doorway of the old Tolbooth in Edinburgh. Scott collected many of these curiosities to be built into the walls of the South Garden, which previously hosted a colonnade of gothic arches along the garden walls. Along the path of the former colonnade sits the remains of Edinburgh's 15th century Mercat Cross and several examples of classical sculpture. The estate and its neo-Medieval features nod towards Scott's desire for a historical feel, but the writer ensured that the house would provide all the comforts of modern living. As a result, Scott used the space as a proving-ground for new technologies. The house was outfitted with early gas lighting and pneumatic bells connecting residents with servants elsewhere in the house. Scott had only enjoyed his residence one year when (1825) he met with that reverse of fortune which involved the estate in debt. In 1830, the library and museum were presented to him as a free gift by the creditors. The property was wholly disencumbered in 1847 by Robert Cadell, the publisher, who cancelled the bond upon it in exchange for the family's share in the copyright of Sir Walter's works. Scott's only son Walter did not live to enjoy the property, having died on his way from India in 1847. Among subsequent possessors were Scott's grandson Walter Scott Lockhart (later Walter Lockhart Scott, 1826–1853), his younger sister Charlotte Harriet Jane Hope-Scott (née Lockhart) 1828–1858, J. R. Hope Scott, QC, and his daughter (Scott's great-granddaughter), the Hon. Mrs Maxwell Scott. The house was opened to the public in 1833, but continued to be occupied by Scott's descendants until 2004. The last of his direct descendants to hold the Lairdship of Abbotsford was his great-great-great-granddaughter Dame Jean Maxwell-Scott (8 June 1923 – 5 May 2004). She inherited it from her elder sister Patricia Maxwell-Scott in 1998. The sisters turned the house into one of Scotland's premier tourist attractions, after they had to rely on paying visitors to afford the upkeep of the house. It had electricity installed only in 1962. Dame Jean was at one time a lady-in-waiting to Princess Alice, Duchess of Gloucester, patron of the Dandie Dinmont Club, a breed of dog named after one of Sir Walter Scott's characters; and a horse trainer, one of whose horses, Sir Wattie, ridden by Ian Stark, won two silver medals at the 1988 Summer Olympics. On Dame Jean's death the Abbotsford Trust was established to safeguard the estate. In 2005, Scottish Borders Council considered an application by a property developer to build a housing estate on the opposite bank of the River Tweed from Abbotsford, to which Historic Scotland and the National Trust for Scotland objected. There have been modifications to the proposed development, but it is still being opposed in 2020. Sir Walter Scott rescued the "jougs" from Threave Castle in Dumfries and Galloway and attached them to the castellated gateway he built at Abbotsford. Tweedbank railway station is located near to Abbotsford. Miscellaneous Abbotsford gave its name to the Abbotsford Club, founded by William Barclay Turnbull in 1833 or 1834 in Scott's honour, and a successor to the Bannatyne and Maitland Clubs. It was a text publication society, which existed to print and publish historical works connected with Scott's writings. Its publications extended from 1835 to 1864. In August 2012, a new Visitor Centre opened at Abbotsford which houses a small exhibition, gift shop and Ochiltree's café with views over the house and grounds. The house re-opened to the public after extensive renovations in July 2013. In 2014 it won the European Union Prize for Cultural Heritage / Europa Nostra Award for its then recent conservation project. See also List of places in the Scottish Borders Notes References Attribution External links Abbotsford – The Home of Sir Walter Scott – official site RCAHMS / CANMORE site record for Abbotsford Edinburgh University Library Abbotsford (by W S Crockett – 1904 illustrated book pub. A & C Black) Abbotsford and Newstead Abbey by Washington Irving, from Project Gutenberg Category A listed buildings in the Scottish Borders Category A listed houses in Scotland Scottish baronial architecture Walter Scott Inventory of Gardens and Designed Landscapes Gardens in the Scottish Borders Literary museums in Scotland Historic house museums in the Scottish Borders Country houses in the Scottish Borders Houses completed in 1824 Galashiels
Abydos may refer to: Abydos, a progressive metal side project of German singer Andy Kuntz Abydos (Hellespont), an ancient city in Mysia, Asia Minor Abydos (Stargate), name of a fictional planet in the Stargate science fiction universe Abydos, Egypt, a city in ancient Egypt Abydos Station, a pastoral lease and cattle station in Western Australia See also Abidu, a village in Iran Abidos, Pyrénées-Atlantiques, in southwestern France
In Norse cosmology, Álfheimr (Old Norse: , "Land of the Elves" or "Elfland"; anglicized as Alfheim), also called "Ljósálfheimr" ( , "home of the Light Elves"), is home of the Light Elves. Attestations Álfheim as an abode of the Elves is mentioned only twice in Old Norse texts. Grímnismál The Eddic poem Grímnismál describes twelve divine dwellings beginning the stanza 5 with: A tooth-gift is a gift given to an infant on the cutting of the first tooth. Gylfaginning In the 12th century Eddic prose Gylfaginning, Snorri Sturluson relates it in the stanza 17 as the first of a series of abodes in heaven: Later in the section, in speaking of a hall in the Highest Heaven called Gimlé that shall survive when heaven and earth have died, explains: See also Alfheimbjerg Fairyland, a folkloric location sometimes referred to as Elfame Svartálfaheimr Svartálfar (black elves) Citations Bibliography Primary External links Locations in Norse mythology Saga locations Elves Freyr
The Alabama River, in the U.S. state of Alabama, is formed by the Tallapoosa and Coosa rivers, which unite about north of Montgomery, near the town of Wetumpka. The river flows west to Selma, then southwest until, about from Mobile, it unites with the Tombigbee, forming the Mobile and Tensaw rivers, which discharge into Mobile Bay. Description The run of the Alabama is highly meandering. Its width varies from , and its depth from . Its length as measured by the United States Geological Survey is , and by steamboat measurement, . The river crosses the richest agricultural and timber districts of the state. Railways connect it with the mineral regions of north-central Alabama. After the Coosa and Tallapoosa rivers, the principal tributary of the Alabama is the Cahaba River, which is about long and joins the Alabama River about below Selma. The Alabama River's main tributary, the Coosa River, crosses the mineral region of Alabama and is navigable for light-draft boats from Rome, Georgia, to about above Wetumpka (about below Rome and below Greensport), and from Wetumpka to its junction with the Tallapoosa. The channel of the river has been considerably improved by the federal government. The navigation of the Tallapoosa River – which has its source in Paulding County, Georgia, and is about long – is prevented by shoals and a fall at Tallassee, a few miles north of its junction with the Coosa. The Alabama is navigable throughout the year. The river played an important role in the growth of the economy in the region during the 19th century as a source of transportation of goods, which included slaves. The river is still used for transportation of farming produce; however, it is not as important as it once was due to the construction of roads and railways. Documented by Europeans first in 1701, the Alabama, Coosa, and Tallapoosa rivers were central to the homeland of the Creek Indians before their removal by United States forces to the Indian Territory in the 1830s. Lock and dams The Alabama River has three lock and dams between Montgomery and the Mobile River. The Robert F. Henry Lock & Dam is located at river mile 236.2, the Millers Ferry Lock & Dam is located at river mile 133.0, and the Claiborne Lock & Dam is located at river mile 72.5. Gallery See also List of Alabama rivers Tallapoosa River Coosa River Mobile River South Atlantic-Gulf Water Resource Region References External links Allrefer.com Alabama placenames of Native American origin Rivers of Autauga County, Alabama Rivers of Monroe County, Alabama Rivers of Montgomery County, Alabama Rivers of Wilcox County, Alabama Rivers of Dallas County, Alabama Rivers of Mobile County, Alabama Rivers of Elmore County, Alabama Rivers of Alabama
The Dodo is a fictional character appearing in Chapters 2 and 3 of the 1865 book Alice's Adventures in Wonderland by Lewis Carroll (Charles Lutwidge Dodgson). The Dodo is a caricature of the author. A popular but unsubstantiated belief is that Dodgson chose the particular animal to represent himself because of his stammer, and thus would accidentally introduce himself as "Do-do-dodgson". Historically, the dodo was a non-flying bird that lived on the island of Mauritius, east of Madagascar in the Indian Ocean. It became extinct in the mid 17th century during the colonisation of the island by the Dutch. Alice's Adventures in Wonderland In this passage Lewis Carroll incorporated references to the original boating expedition of 4 July 1862 during which Alice's Adventures were first told, with Alice as herself, and the others represented by birds: the Lory was Lorina Liddell, the Eaglet was Edith Liddell, the Dodo was Dodgson, and the Duck was Rev. Robinson Duckworth. In order to get dry after a swim, the Dodo proposes that everyone run a Caucus race – where the participants run in patterns of any shape, starting and leaving off whenever they like, so that everyone wins. At the end of the race, Alice distributes comfits from her pocket to all as prizes. However this leaves no prize for herself. The Dodo inquires what else she has in her pocket. As she has only a thimble, the Dodo requests it from her and then awards it to Alice as her prize. The Caucus Race, as depicted by Carroll, is a satire on the political caucus system, mocking its lack of clarity and decisiveness. Interpretations Disney animated film version In the Disney film, the Dodo plays a much greater role in the story than in the book. He is merged with the character of Pat the Gardener, which leads to him sometimes being nicknamed Pat the Dodo, but this name is never mentioned in the film. The Dodo is also the leader of the caucus race. He has the appearance and personality of a sea captain. The Dodo is voiced by Bill Thompson and animated by Milt Kahl. Dodo is first seen as Alice is floating on the sea in a bottle. Dodo is seen singing, but when Alice asks him for help, he does not notice her. On shore, Dodo is seen on a rock, organizing a caucus race. This race involves running around until one gets dry, but the attempts are hampered by incoming waves. Dodo is later summoned by the White Rabbit, when the rabbit believes a monster, actually Alice having magically grown to a giant size, is inside his home. Dodo brings Bill the Lizard, and attempts to get him to go down the chimney. Bill refuses at first, but Dodo is able to convince him otherwise. However, the soot causes Alice to sneeze, sending Bill high up into the sky. Dodo then decides to burn the house down, much to the chagrin of the White Rabbit. He begins gathering wood, such as the furniture, for this purpose. However, Alice is soon able to return to a smaller size and exit the house. The White Rabbit soon leaves, while Dodo asks for matches, not realizing that the situation has been resolved. He then asks Alice for a match, but when she doesn't have any, Dodo complains about the lack of cooperation and uses his pipe to light the fire. The Dodo later appears briefly at the end of the film, conducting another Caucus Race while Alice is being chased by the Queen of Hearts and her card soldiers. In Alice's Wonderland Bakery, Dodo has returned and has a son named Jojo. Tim Burton's Alice in Wonderland version In Tim Burton's adaptation of Alice in Wonderland, the Dodo's appearance retains the subtle apparent nature from John Tenniel's illustration. He bears a down of brilliant blue and wears a navy blue waistcoat and white spats along with glasses and a cane. He is one of Alice's good-willed advisers, taking first note of her abilities as the true Alice. He is also one of the oldest inhabitants. His name is Uilleam, and he is portrayed by Michael Gough. He goes with the White Rabbit, Tweedledum and Tweedledee, and Dormouse to take Alice to Caterpillar to decide whether Alice is the real one. He is later captured by the Red Queen's forces. When Alice came to the Red Queen's castle, he was seen at the Red Queen's castle yard as a caddy for the Queen's croquet game. After the Red Queen orders the release of the Jubjub bird to kill all her subjects from rebelling, he is then seen briefly running from it when the Tweedles went to hide from it and escaped but was snatched by the Jubjub and was never seen again throughout the film. His name may be based on a lecture on William the Conqueror from Chapter Three of the original novel. The character is voiced by Michael Gough in his final feature film role before his death in 2011. Gough came out of retirement to appear in the film but the character only speaks three lines, so Gough managed to record in one day. References Lewis Carroll characters Fictional flightless birds Literary characters introduced in 1865 Dodo Male characters in literature
A Lory is a small to medium-sized arboreal parrot. Lory may also refer to: People Al De Lory (1930–2012), an American record producer, arranger, conductor and session musician Donna De Lory (born 1964), an American singer, dancer and songwriter Milo B. Lory (1903–1974), an American sound editor Other uses Lory, a fictional parrot, a minor character in the Alice series by Lewis Carroll Lory Lake, in Minnesota, U.S. Lory State Park, near Fort Collins, Colorado, U.S. See also Lorry (disambiguation) Lori (disambiguation) Loris (disambiguation) Loris, strepsirrhine primates
Albert may refer to: Companies Albert Czech Republic, a supermarket chain in the Czech Republic Albert Heijn, a supermarket chain in the Netherlands Albert Market, a street market in The Gambia Albert Productions, a record label Albert Computers, Inc., a computer manufacturer in the 1980s Entertainment Albert (1985 film), a Czechoslovak film directed by František Vláčil Albert (2015 film), a film by Karsten Kiilerich Albert (2016 film), an American TV movie Albert (album), by Ed Hall, 1988 "Albert" (short story), by Leo Tolstoy Albert (comics), a character in Marvel Comics Albert (Discworld), a character in Terry Pratchett's Discworld series Albert, a character in Dario Argento's 1977 film Suspiria Military Battle of Albert (1914), a WWI battle at Albert, Somme, France Battle of Albert (1916), a WWI battle at Albert, Somme, France Battle of Albert (1918), a WWI battle at Albert, Somme, France People Albert (given name) Albert (surname) Albert (wrestler) (born 1972), stage name of professional wrestler Matt Bloom Albert (dancer) (François-Ferdinand 1789–1865), French ballet dancer Places Canada Albert (1846–1973 electoral district), a provincial electoral district in New Brunswick from 1846 to 1973 Albert (electoral district), a federal electoral district in New Brunswick from 1867 to 1903 Albert (provincial electoral district), a provincial electoral district in New Brunswick Albert County, New Brunswick Rural Municipality of Albert, Manitoba, Canada United States Albert, Kansas Albert Township, Michigan Albert, Oklahoma Albert, Texas, a ghost town The Albert (Detroit), formerly the Griswold Building, an American apartment block Elsewhere Albert (Belize House constituency), a Belize City-based electoral constituency Albert, New South Wales, a town in Australia Electoral district of Albert, a former electoral district in Queensland, Australia Albert, Somme, a French commune Transportation Albert (automobile), a 1920s British light car Albert (motorcycle), a 1920s German vehicle brand Albert (tugboat), a 1979 U.S. tugboat Other 719 Albert, Amor asteroid Albert (crater), a lunar crater The Albert, a pub in London See also Alberta (disambiguation) Alberts (disambiguation) Alberte (born 1963), a Danish singer and actress Albertet, a diminutive of Albert Albret, a seigneurie in Landes, France Aubert, an Anglo-Saxon surname
Albert I may refer to: People Born before 1300 Albert I, Count of Vermandois (917–987) Albert I, Count of Namur () Albert I of Moha Albert I of Brandenburg (), first margrave of Brandenburg Albert I, Margrave of Meissen (1158–1195) Albert I of Käfernburg (), Archbishop of Magdeburg Albert I of Pietengau () Albert I, Lord of Mecklenburg (after 1230–1265) Albert I, Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg (1236–1279), second duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg Albert I of Germany (1255–1308), king of Germany and archduke of Austria Albert I, Prince of Anhalt-Zerbst (–1316) Born after 1300 Albert I, Duke of Bavaria (1336–1404), duke of Bavaria-Straubing, count of Holland, Hainault and Zealand Albert I, Duke of Mecklenburg-Stargard Albert I, Duke of Brunswick-Grubenhagen () Albert I, Duke of Münsterberg-Oels (1468–1511) Albert I, Duke of Prussia (1490–1568), first Duke of Prussia Albert I, Prince of Monaco (1848–1922) Albert I of Belgium (1875–1934), king of the Belgians Albert I Kalonji Ditunga (1929–2015), Congolese politician Other uses Albert I, the first monkey used in a subspace rocket launch, June 11, 1948 See also Albert (given name)
Albert II may refer to: Monkeys Albert II (monkey), first primate and first mammal in space, died on impact following V-2 flight June 14, 1949 People Albert II, Count of Namur (died 1067) Albert II, Count of Tyrol (died 1120s) Albert II, Margrave of Brandenburg (–1220) Albert II, Archbishop of Riga (1200–1273) Albert II, Margrave of Meissen (1240–1314), Albert II, Duke of Saxony (1250–1298) Albert II, Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg (–1318) Albert II of Austria (1298–1358) Albert II, Prince of Anhalt-Zerbst (died 1362) Albert II, Duke of Mecklenburg (1318–1379) Albert II, Duke of Bavaria-Straubing (1368–1397) Albert II, Count of Holstein-Rendsburg (1369–1403) Albert II of Germany (1397–1439), King of Germany, Hungary, Croatia and Bohemia, Duke of Austria Albert II, Duke of Brunswick-Grubenhagen (1419–1485) Albert II, Duke of Mecklenburg-Stargard (1400s) Albert II, Count of Hoya (1526–1563) Albert II, Margrave of Brandenburg-Ansbach (1620–1667) Albert II of Belgium (born 1934), King of the Belgians Albert II, Prince of Monaco (born 1958), ruler of the principality of Monaco Albert II, Prince of Thurn and Taxis (born 1983), Prince of Thurn und Taxis, German prince
Albert II (; 28 March 15228 January 1557) was the margrave of Brandenburg-Kulmbach (Brandenburg-Bayreuth) from 1527 to 1553. He was a member of the Franconian branch of the House of Hohenzollern. Because of his bellicose nature, Albert was given the cognomen Bellator ("the Warlike") during his lifetime. Posthumously, he became known as Alcibiades. Biography Albert was born in Ansbach and, losing his father Casimir in 1527, he came under the guardianship of his uncle George, Margrave of Brandenburg-Ansbach, a strong adherent of Protestantism. In 1541, he received Bayreuth as his share of the family lands, but as the chief town of his principality was Kulmbach, he is sometimes referred to as the Margrave of Brandenburg-Kulmbach. His restless and turbulent nature marked him out for a military career; and having collected a small band of soldiers, he assisted Emperor Charles V in his war with France in 1543. The Peace of Crépy in September 1544 deprived him of this employment, but he won a considerable reputation, and when Charles was preparing to attack the Schmalkaldic League, he took pains to win Albert's assistance. Sharing in the attack on the Electorate of Saxony, Albert was taken prisoner at Rochlitz in March 1547 by Elector John Frederick of Saxony, but was released as a result of the Emperor's victory at the Battle of Mühlberg in the succeeding April. He then followed the fortunes of his friend Elector Maurice of Saxony, deserted Charles, and joined the league which proposed to overthrow the Emperor by an alliance with King Henry II of France. He took part in the subsequent campaign, but when the Peace of Passau was signed in August 1552 he separated himself from his allies and began a crusade of plunder in Franconia, which led to the Second Margrave War. Having extorted a large sum of money from the citizens of Nuremberg, he quarrelled with his supporter, the French King, and offered his services to the Emperor. Charles, anxious to secure such a famous fighter, gladly assented to Albert's demands and gave the imperial sanction to his possession of the lands taken from the bishops of Würzburg and Bamberg; and his conspicuous bravery was of great value to the Emperor on the retreat from the Siege of Metz in January 1553. When Charles left Germany a few weeks later, Albert renewed his depredations in Franconia. These soon became so serious that a league was formed to crush him, and Maurice of Saxony led an army against his former comrade. The rival forces met at Sievershausen on 9 July 1553, and after a combat of unusual ferocity Albert was put to flight. Henry, Duke of Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel, then took command of the troops of the league, and after Albert had been placed under the Imperial ban in December 1553 he was defeated by Duke Henry, and compelled to flee to France. He there entered the service of Henry II of France and had undertaken a campaign to regain his lands when he died at Pforzheim on 8 January 1557. He is defined by Thomas Carlyle as "a failure of a Fritz," with "features" of a Frederick the Great in him, "but who burnt away his splendid qualities as a mere temporary shine for the able editors, and never came to anything, full of fire, too much of it wildfire, not in the least like an Alcibiades except in the change of fortune he underwent". He had early two children: Frederick and Anna. He was buried at Heilsbronn Münster. His hymn "Was mein Got will, das g'scheh allzeit" was translated as "The will of God is always best". References Citations Works cited Endnote: See J. Voigt, Markgraf Albrecht Alcibiades von Brandenburg-Kulmbach (Berlin, 1852). 1522 births 1557 deaths House of Hohenzollern People from Ansbach People from the Principality of Ansbach Margraves of Bayreuth
Albert the Bear (; 1100 – 18 November 1170) was the first margrave of Brandenburg from 1157 to his death and was briefly duke of Saxony between 1138 and 1142. Life Albert was the only son of Otto, Count of Ballenstedt, and Eilika, daughter of Magnus Billung, Duke of Saxony. He inherited his father's valuable estates in northern Saxony in 1123, and on his mother's death, in 1142, succeeded to one-half of the lands of the house of Billung. Albert was a loyal vassal of his relation, Lothar I, Duke of Saxony, from whom, about 1123, he received the Margraviate of Lusatia, to the east; after Lothar became King of the Germans, he accompanied him on a disastrous expedition to Bohemia against the upstart, Soběslav I, Duke of Bohemia in 1126 at the Battle of Kulm, where he suffered a short imprisonment. Albert's entanglements in Saxony stemmed from his desire to expand his inherited estates there. After the death of his brother-in-law, Henry II, Margrave of the Nordmark, who controlled a small area on the Elbe called the Saxon Northern March, in 1128, Albert, disappointed at not receiving this fief himself, attacked Udo V, Count of Stade, the heir, and was consequently deprived of Lusatia by Lothar. Udo, however, was said to have been assassinated by servants of Albert on 15 March 1130 near Aschersleben. In spite of this, Albert went to Italy in 1132 in the train of the king, and his services there were rewarded in 1134 by the investiture of the Northern March, which was again without a ruler. In 1138 Conrad III, the Hohenstaufen King of the Germans, deprived Albert's cousin and nemesis, Henry the Proud, of his Saxon duchy, which was awarded to Albert if he could take it. After some initial success in his efforts to take possession, Albert was driven from Saxony, and also from his Northern March by a combined force of Henry and Jaxa of Köpenick, and compelled to take refuge in south Germany. Henry died in 1139 and an arrangement was found. Henry's son, Henry the Lion, received the duchy of Saxony in 1142. In the same year, Albert renounced the Saxon duchy and received the counties of Weimar and Orlamünde. Once he was firmly established in the Northern March, Albert's covetous eye lay also on the thinly populated lands to the north and east. For three years he was occupied in campaigns against the Slavic Wends, who as pagans were considered fair game, and whose subjugation to Christianity was the aim of the Wendish Crusade of 1147 in which Albert took part. Albert was a part of the army that besieged Demmin, and at the end of the war, recovered Havelberg, which had been lost since 983. Diplomatic measures were more successful, and by an arrangement made with the last of the Wendish princes of Brandenburg, Pribislav-Henry of the Hevelli, Albert secured this district when the prince died in 1150. Taking the title "Margrave in Brandenburg", he pressed the crusade against the Wends, extended the area of his mark, encouraged Dutch and German settlement in the Elbe-Havel region (Ostsiedlung), established bishoprics under his protection, and so became the founder of the Margraviate of Brandenburg in 1157, which his heirs — the House of Ascania — held until the line died out in 1320. In 1158 a feud with Henry the Lion, Duke of Saxony, was interrupted by a pilgrimage to the Holy Land. On his return in 1160, he, with the consent of his sons, Siegfried not being mentioned, donated land to the Knights of Saint John in memory of his wife, Sofia, at Werben on the Elbe. Around this same time, he minted a pfennig in memory of his deceased wife. In 1162 Albert accompanied Emperor Frederick Barbarossa to Italy, where he distinguished himself at the storming of Milan. In 1164 Albert joined a league of princes formed against Henry the Lion, and peace being made in 1169, Albert divided his territories among his six sons. He died on 18 November 1170, and was buried at Ballenstedt. Cognomen Albert's personal qualities won for him the cognomen of the Bear, "not from his looks or qualities, for he was a tall handsome man, but from the cognisance on his shield, an able man, had a quick eye as well as a strong hand, and could pick what way was straightest among crooked things, was the shining figure and the great man of the North in his day, got much in the North and kept it, got Brandenburg for one there, a conspicuous country ever since," says Thomas Carlyle, who called Albert "a restless, much-managing, wide-warring man." He was also called "the Handsome." Marriage and children Albert was married in 1124 to Sophie of Winzenburg (died 25 March 1160) and they had the following children: Otto I, Margrave of Brandenburg (1126/1128–7 March 1184) Count Hermann I of Orlamünde (died 1176), father of Siegfried III, Count of Weimar-Orlamünde Siegfried (died 24 October 1184), Bishop of Brandenburg from 1173 to 1180, Prince-Archbishop of Bremen, the first ranked prince, from 1180 to 1184 Heinrich (died 1185), a canon in Magdeburg Count Albert of Ballenstedt (died after 6 December 1172) Count Dietrich of Werben (died after 5 September 1183) Count Bernhard of Anhalt (1134–9 February 1212), Duke of Saxony from 1180 to 1212 as Bernard III Hedwig (d. 1203), married to Otto II, Margrave of Meissen Daughter, married to Vladislav of Olomouc, the eldest son of Soběslav I, Duke of Bohemia Adelheid (died 1162), a nun in Lamspringe Gertrude, married in 1155 to Duke Diepold of Moravia Sybille (died ), Abbess of Quedlinburg Eilika References Works cited General references External links Thomas Carlyle, History of Friedrich ii Chapter iv: Albert the Bear The History Files: Rulers of Brandenburg Albert 00 Margraves of Brandenburg Counts of Anhalt People from Brandenburg an der Havel Christians of the Wendish Crusade 1100s births 1170 deaths Year of birth uncertain Place of birth unknown
Ahmed II ( Aḥmed-i sānī) (25 February 1643 or 1 August 1642 – 6 February 1695) was the sultan of the Ottoman Empire from 1691 to 1695. Early life Ahmed II was born on 25 February 1643 or 1 August 1642, the son of Sultan Ibrahim and Muazzez Sultan. On 21 October 1649, Ahmed, along with his brothers Mehmed and Suleiman were circumcised. During the reigns of his older brothers, Ahmed was imprisoned in Kafes, and he stayed there almost 43 years. Reign During his reign, Ahmed II devoted most of his attention to the wars against the Habsburgs and related foreign policy, governmental and economic issues. Of these, the most important were the tax reforms and the introduction of the lifelong tax farm system (malikâne). Following the recovery of Belgrade under his predecessor, Suleiman II, the military frontier reached a rough stalemate on the Danube, with the Habsburgs no longer able to advance south of it, and the Ottomans attempting, ultimately unsuccessfully, to regain the initiative north of it. Among the most important features of Ahmed's reign was his reliance on Köprülüzade Fazıl Mustafa Pasha. Following his accession to the throne, Ahmed II confirmed Fazıl Mustafa Pasha in his office as grand vizier. In office from 1689, Fazıl Mustafa Pasha was from the Köprülü family of grand viziers, and like most of his Köprülü predecessors in the same office, was an able administrator and military commander. Like his father Köprülü Mehmed Pasha (grand vizier, 1656–61) before him, Fazıl Mustafa Pasha ordered the removal and execution of dozens of corrupt state officials of the previous regime and replaced them with men loyal to himself. He overhauled the tax system by adjusting it to the capabilities of the taxpayers affected by the latest wars. He also reformed troop mobilization and increased the pool of conscripts available for the army by drafting tribesmen in the Balkans and Anatolia. In October 1690, Fazıl Mustafa Pasha recaptured Belgrade, a key fortress that commanded the confluence of the rivers Danube and Sava; in Ottoman hands since 1521, the fortress had been conquered by the Habsburgs in 1688. Fazıl Mustafa Pasha's victory at Belgrade was a major military achievement that gave the Ottomans hope that the military debacles of the 1680s—which had led to the loss of Hungary and Transylvania, an Ottoman vassal principality ruled by pro-Istanbul Hungarian princes—could be reversed. However, the Ottoman success proved ephemeral. On 19 August 1691, Fazıl Mustafa Pasha suffered a devastating defeat at the Battle of Slankamen at the hands of Louis William, the Habsburg commander in chief in Hungary, nicknamed “Türkenlouis” (Louis the Turk) for his victories against the Ottomans. In the confrontation, recognized by contemporaries as “the bloodiest battle of the century,” the Ottomans suffered heavy losses: 20,000 men, including the grand vizier. With him, the sultan lost his most capable military commander and the last member of the Köprülü family, who for the previous half century had been instrumental in strengthening the Ottoman military. Under Fazıl Mustafa Pasha's successors, the Ottomans suffered further defeats. In June 1692 the Habsburgs conquered Oradea, the seat of an Ottoman governor () since 1660. In 1694, they attempted to recapture Oradea, but to no avail. On 12 January 1695, they surrendered the fortress of Gyula, the center of an Ottoman sanjak (subprovince) since 1566. With the fall of Gyula, the only territory still in Ottoman hands in Hungary was to the east of the River Tisza and to the south of the river Maros, with its center at Timișoara. Three weeks later, on 6 February 1695, Ahmed II died in Edirne Palace. Family Consorts Ahmed II had two known consorts: Rabia Sultan (died Eski Palace, Istanbul, 14 January 1712, buried in Suleiman I Mausoleum, Süleymaniye Mosque). Ahmed II's most beloved consort and the last haseki sultan of the Ottoman Empire; Şayeste Hatun (died 1710, Eski Palace, Istanbul). Second concubine of Ahmed II, perhaps mother of his others daughters. Sons Ahmed II had two sons: Şehzade Ibrahim (Edirne Palace, Edirne, 6 October 1692 – Topkapı Palace, Istanbul, 4 May 1714, buried in Mustafa I Mausoleum, Hagia Sophia), with Rabia Sultan, Selim's twin, became crown prince on 22 August 1703 until his death; Şehzade Selim (Edirne Palace, Edirne, 6 October 1692 – Edirne Palace, Edirne, 15 May 1693, buried in Sultan Mustafa Mausoleum, Hagia Sophia), with Rabia Sultan, Ibrahim's twin. Daughters Ahmed II had two or three daughters: Asiye Sultan (Edirne Palace, Edirne, 23 October 1694 – Eski Palace, Bayezid, Istanbul, 9 December 1695, buried in Suleiman I Mausoleum, Süleymaniye Mosque), with Rabia Sultan; Atike Sultan (born 24 October 1694). Her existence is controversial: due to the similar name and almost identical date of birth some historians believe she may be Asiye herself, whose birth was recorded incorrectly by some or that Atike was Asiye's second name. If she really was a different princess, she was probably the daughter of Şayeste Hatun. Hatice Sultan, probably with Şayeste Hatun. Died in infancy. In addition to his daughters, Ahmed II was deeply attached to his niece Ümmügülsüm Sultan, daughter of his half-brother Mehmed IV, so much so that he treated her as if she were his own daughter. References Citations Sources Further reading Michael Hochendlinger, Austria's Wars of Emergence: War, State and Society in the Habsburg Monarchy, 1683–1797 (London: Longman, 2003), 157–64. External links 1643 births 1695 deaths Ottoman people of the Great Turkish War 17th-century Ottoman sultans Turks from the Ottoman Empire
Vipera berus, the common European adder, is a snake found in Europe and northern Asia. Adder may also refer to: AA-12 Adder, a Russian air-to-air missile Adder (electronics), an electronic circuit designed to do addition Adder Technology, a manufacturing company Armstrong Siddeley Adder, a late 1940s British turbojet engine Blackadder, a series of BBC sitcoms Golden Axe: The Revenge of Death Adder, a video game HMS Adder, any of seven ships of the Royal Navy Any of several groups of venomous snakes USS Adder, a US submarine See also Addition, a mathematical operation
Agapanthus africanus, or the African lily, is a flowering plant from the genus Agapanthus found only on rocky sandstone slopes of the winter rainfall fynbos from the Cape Peninsula to Swellendam. It is also known as the lily-of-the-Nile in spite of only occurring in South Africa. Description The plant is a rhizomatous evergreen geophyte from in height. The leathery leaves are suberect and long and strap shaped. Flowers are broadly funnel-shaped, pale to deep blue, and thick-textured with a dark blue stripe running down the center of each petal. Paler flowers are more common in Agapanthus africanus walshii while Agapanthus africanus africanus flowers tend to be darker. The flowers grow in large clusters, with each flower being long. This species flowers from November to April, particularly after fire. Peak flowering occurs from December to February. Ecology Pollination is by wind, bees and sunbirds and seed dispersal by the wind. Chacma baboons and buck sometimes eat the flower heads just as the first flowers begin to open. These plants are adapted to survive fire in the fynbos and resprout from thick, fleshy roots after fire has passed through the area. Cultivation and use Unlike the more common Agapanthus praecox, this species is less suitable as a garden plant as it is far more difficult to grow. A. africanus subsp. africanus may be grown in rockeries in a well drained, slightly acid sandy mix. They seem to be best when grown in shallow pots and will flower regularly if fed with a slow release fertiliser. A. africanus subsp. walshii is by far the most difficult Agapanthus to grow. It can only be grown as a container plant and will not survive if planted out. They require a very well-drained, sandy, acid mix with minimal watering in summer. Both subspecies require hot, dry summers, and winter rainfall climate. It will not tolerate extended freezing temperatures. The name A. africanus has long been misapplied to A. praecox in horticultural use and publications across the world, and horticultural plants sold as A. africanus are actually hybrids or cultivars of A. praecox. Extracts of A. africanus have been shown to have antifungal properties. Application of these extracts to the seeds of other plant species, including economically important species, has shown that it significantly reduces the severity of the impacts of certain pathogens. In the case of sorghum, this application was even found to perform better than Thiram, a commonly used fungicide when exposed to Sporisorium sorghi and S. cruentum. Similarly, it has found to induce resistance to rust leaf in wheat through increasing the activity of pathogenesis related proteins. Conservation While the species as a whole has not yet been assessed, A. africanus subsp. walshii is considered to be endangered by the South African National Biodiversity Institute (SANBI). It is known only from a small area in the Elgin valley (less than five locations) and the population continues to decline. The largest subpopulation is threatened by unregulated informal settlement expansion. A proportion of the population is protected within the Kogelberg Biosphere Reserve and is not threatened. See also List of plants known as lily References External links Plantweb: Agapanthus africanus africanus Endemic flora of the Cape Provinces Plants described in 1824 Plants described in 1753 Taxa named by Carl Linnaeus Blue flowers
Agasias was the name of several different people in classical history, including two different Greek sculptors. Agasias of Arcadia, a warrior mentioned by Xenophon Agasias, son of Dositheus, Ephesian sculptor of the Borghese Gladiator Agasias, son of Menophilus (), Ephesian sculptor Greek masculine given names Masculine given names
Agathon (; ; ) was an Athenian tragic poet whose works have been lost. He is best known for his appearance in Plato's Symposium, which describes the banquet given to celebrate his obtaining a prize for his first tragedy at the Lenaia in 416. He is also a prominent character in Aristophanes' comedy the Thesmophoriazusae. Life and career Agathon was the son of Tisamenus, and the lover of Pausanias, with whom he appears in both the Symposium and Plato's Protagoras. Together with Pausanias, he later moved to the court of Archelaus, king of Macedon, who was recruiting playwrights; it is here that he probably died around 401 BC. Agathon introduced certain innovations into the Greek theater: Aristotle tells us in the Poetics (1456a) that the characters and plot of his Anthos were original and not, following Athenian dramatic orthodoxy, borrowed from mythological or historical subjects. Agathon was also the first playwright to write choral parts which were apparently independent from the main plot of his plays. Agathon is portrayed by Plato as a handsome young man, well dressed, of polished manners, courted by the fashion, wealth and wisdom of Athens, and dispensing hospitality with ease and refinement. The epideictic speech in praise of love which Agathon recites in the Symposium is full of beautiful but artificial rhetorical expressions, and has led some scholars to believe he may have been a student of Gorgias. In the Symposium, Agathon is presented as the friend of the comic poet Aristophanes, but this alleged friendship did not prevent Aristophanes from harshly criticizing Agathon in at least two of his comic plays: the Thesmophoriazousae and the (now lost) Gerytades. In the later play Frogs, Aristophanes softens his criticisms, but even so it may be only for the sake of punning on Agathon's name (ἁγαθός "good") that he makes Dionysus call him a "good poet". Agathon was also a friend of Euripides, another recruit to the court of Archelaus of Macedon. Physical appearance Agathon's extraordinary physical beauty is brought up repeatedly in the sources; the historian W. Rhys Roberts observes that "ὁ καλός Ἀγάθων (ho kalos Agathon) has become almost a stereotyped phrase." The most detailed surviving description of Agathon is in the Thesmophoriazousae, in which Agathon appears as a pale, clean-shaven young man dressed in women's clothes. Scholars are unsure how much of Aristophanes' portrayal is fact and how much mere comic invention. After a close reading of the Thesmophoriazousae, the historian Jane McIntosh Snyder observed that Agathon's costume was almost identical to that of the famous lyric poet Anacreon, as he is portrayed in early 5th-century vase-paintings. Snyder theorizes that Agathon might have made a deliberate effort to mimic the sumptuous attire of his famous fellow-poet, although by Agathon's time, such clothing, especially the κεκρύφαλος (kekryphalos, an elaborate covering for the hair) had long fallen out of fashion for men. According to this interpretation, Agathon is mocked in the Thesmophoriazousae not only for his notorious effeminacy, but also for the pretentiousness of his dress: "he seems to think of himself, in all his elegant finery, as a rival to the old Ionian poets, perhaps even to Anacreon himself." Plato's epigram Agathon has been thought to be the subject of Lovers' Lips, an epigram attributed to Plato: Kissing Agathon, I had my soul upon my lips; for it rose, poor wretch, as though to cross over. Another translation reads: Kissing Agathon, I found my soul at my lips. Poor thing! It went there, hoping--to slip across. Although the authenticity of this epigram was accepted for many centuries, it was probably not composed for Agathon the tragedian, nor was it composed by Plato. Stylistic evidence suggests that the poem (with most of Plato's other alleged epigrams) was actually written some time after Plato had died: its form is that of the Hellenistic erotic epigram, which did not become popular until after 300 BC. According to 20th-century scholar Walther Ludwig, the poems were spuriously inserted into an early biography of Plato sometime between 250 BC and 100 BC and adopted by later writers from this source. Known plays Of Agathon's plays, only six titles and thirty-one fragments have survived: Aerope Alcmeon Anthos or Antheus ("The Flower") Mysoi ("Mysians") Telephos ("Telephus") Thyestes Fragments in A Nauck, Tragicorum graecorum fragmenta (1887). Fragments in Greek with English translations in Matthew Wright's "The Lost Plays of Greek Tragedy (Volume 1) Neglected Authors" (2016) Quotations See also List of speakers in Plato's dialogues Symposium (painting) References Notes Sources The Drama: Its History, Literature and Influence on Civilization, volume 1, by Alfred Bates. (London: Historical Publishing Company, 1906) Thesmoph. 59, 106, Eccles. 100 (Aristophanes) Lovers' Lips by Plato in the Project Gutenberg eText Select Epigrams from the Greek Anthology by J. W. Mackail. External links Agathon Poems 440s BC births Year of birth unknown 400s BC deaths Year of death unknown 5th-century BC Athenians Ancient Greek dramatists and playwrights Ancient Greek poets Ancient Greek LGBT people Courtiers of Archelaus I of Macedon Tragic poets 5th-century BC poets
Agis or AGIS may refer to: People Agis I (died 900 BC), Spartan king Agis II (died 401 BC), Spartan king Agis III (died 331 BC), Spartan king Agis IV (265–241 BC), Spartan king Agis (Paeonian) (died 358 BC), King of the Paeonians Agis of Argos, ancient Greek poet Maurice Agis (1931–2009), British sculptor and artist Other uses Agis (play), by John Home Agis, several fictional emperors of Isaac Asimov's Galactic Empire Apex Global Internet Services Atomic gravitational wave interferometric sensor Advanced Glaucoma Intervention Study, conducted by the National Eye Institute See also Agide (disambiguation), modern Italian given name related to Agis Greek masculine given names Masculine given names
Antonio Agliardi (4 September 1832 – 19 March 1915) was an Italian Roman Catholic Cardinal, archbishop, and papal diplomat. Biography Agliardi was born at Cologno al Serio, in what is now the Province of Bergamo. He studied theology and canon law, and after acting as parish priest in his native diocese for twelve years was sent by the pope to Canada as a bishop's chaplain. On his return he was appointed secretary to the Congregation of the Propaganda. In 1884, he was created by Pope Leo XIII Archbishop of Caesarea in partibus and sent to India as an Apostolic Delegate to report on the establishment of the hierarchy there. In 1887 he again visited India, to carry out the terms of the concordat arranged with Portugal. The same year he was appointed secretary of the Congregation super negotiis ecclesiae extraordinariis. In 1889 he became papal Apostolic Nuncio to Bavaria at Munich and in 1892 at Vienna. Allowing himself to be involved in the ecclesiastical disputes that divided Hungary in 1895, he was made the subject of formal complaint by the Hungarian government and in 1896 was recalled. In the consistory of 1896 he was elevated to Cardinal-Priest of Santi Nereo e Achilleo. In 1899 he was made Cardinal Bishop of Albano. In 1903, he was named vice-chancellor of the Catholic Church, and became the Chancellor of the Apostolic Chancery in the Secretariat of State in 1908. He died in Rome and was buried in Bergamo. Episcopal lineage Agliardi's episcopal lineage, or apostolic succession was: Cardinal Scipione Rebiba Cardinal Giulio Antonio Santorio Cardinal Girolamo Bernerio Archbishop Galeazzo Sanvitale Cardinal Ludovico Ludovisi Cardinal Luigi Caetani Cardinal Ulderico Carpegna Cardinal Paluzzo Paluzzi Altieri degli Albertoni Pope Benedict XIII Pope Benedict XIV Cardinal Enrico Enríquez Archbishop Manuel Quintano Bonifaz Cardinal Buenaventura Fernández de Córdoba Spínola Cardinal Giuseppe Doria Pamphili Pope Pius VIII Pope Pius IX Cardinal Alessandro Franchi Cardinal Giovanni Simeoni Cardinal Antonio Agliardi Notes References External links Catholic-Hierarchy.org 1832 births 1915 deaths Clergy from the Province of Bergamo Apostolic Nuncios to Austria 20th-century Italian cardinals Cardinal-bishops of Albano Cartellverband members 19th-century Italian Roman Catholic archbishops 20th-century Italian Roman Catholic archbishops Apostolic Nuncios to Bavaria Cardinals created by Pope Leo XIII Roman Catholic titular archbishops of Caesarea
Agnes of Merania (1175 – July 1201) was Queen of France by marriage to King Philip II. She is called Marie by some of the French chroniclers. Biography Agnes Maria was the daughter of Berthold, Duke of Merania and Agnes of Rochlitz. In June 1196, Agnes married Philip II of France, who had repudiated his second wife Ingeborg of Denmark in 1193. Pope Innocent III espoused the cause of Ingeborg; but Philip did not submit until 1200, when, nine months after interdict had been added to excommunication, he consented to a separation from Agnes. Agnes died giving birth to their third child in July of the next year, at the castle of Poissy, and was buried in the Convent of St Corentin, near Nantes. Family Agnes and Philip had two children: Mary, b. 1198 Philip I, Count of Boulogne, b 1200 Both were legitimized by the Pope in 1201. References Sources External links 1175 births 1201 deaths Queens consort of France Repudiated queens House of Andechs House of Capet 12th-century French people 12th-century French women 13th-century French people 13th-century French women Wives of Philip II of France Deaths in childbirth
Ahenobarbus (Latin, 'red-beard', literally 'bronze-beard'), also spelled Aenobarbus or Ænobarbus, may refer to: Gnaeus Domitius Ahenobarbus (disambiguation), Romans Lucius Domitius Ahenobarbus (disambiguation), Romans Lucius Domitius Ahenobarbus, birth name of Nero, Roman emperor 54–68 Frederick Barbarossa, known in Latin as Fridericus Ænobarbus, Holy Roman Emperor 1155–1190 See also
Arthur Aikin (19 May 177315 April 1854) was an English chemist, mineralogist and scientific writer, and was a founding member of the Chemical Society (now the Royal Society of Chemistry). He first became its treasurer in 1841, and later became the society's second president. Life He was born at Warrington, Lancashire into a distinguished literary family of prominent Unitarians. The best known of these was his paternal aunt, Anna Laetitia Barbauld, a woman of letters who wrote poetry and essays as well as early children's literature. His father, Dr John Aikin, was a medical doctor, historian, and author. His grandfather, also called John (1713–1780), was a Unitarian scholar and theological tutor, closely associated with Warrington Academy. His sister Lucy (1781–1864) was a historical writer. Their brother Charles Rochemont Aikin was adopted by their famous aunt and brought up as their cousin. Arthur Aikin studied chemistry under Joseph Priestley in the New College at Hackney, and gave attention to the practical applications of the science. In early life, he was a Unitarian minister for a short time. Aikin lectured on chemistry at Guy's Hospital for thirty-two years. He became the President of the British Mineralogical Society in 1801 for five years up until 1806 when the Society merged with the Askesian Society. From 1803 to 1808 he was editor of the Annual Review. In 1805 Aiken also became a proprietor of the London Institution, which was officially founded in 1806. He was one of the founders of the Geological Society of London in 1807 and was its honorary secretary in 1812–1817. He also gave lectures in 1813 and 1814. He contributed papers on the Wrekin and the Shropshire coalfield, among others, to the transactions of that society. His Manual of Mineralogy was published in 1814. Later he became the paid secretary of the Society of Arts and later was elected as a fellow. He was founder of the Chemical Society of London in 1841, being its first treasurer and, between 1843 and 1845, second president. In order to support himself, outside of his work with the British Mineralogical Society, the London Institution and the Geological Society, Aiken worked as a writer, translator and lecturer to the public and to medical students at Guy's Hospital. His writing and journalism were useful for publicising foreign scientific news to the wider British public. He was also a member of the Linnean Society and in 1820 joined the Institution of Civil Engineers. He was highly esteemed as a man of sound judgement and wide knowledge. Aikin never married, and died at Hoxton in London in 1854. Publications Journal of a Tour through North Wales and Part of Shropshire with Observations in Mineralogy and Other Branches of Natural History (London, 1797) A Manual of Mineralogy (1814; ed. 2, 1815) A Dictionary of Chemistry and Mineralogy (with his brother C. R. Aikin), 2 vols. (London, 1807, 1814). For Rees's Cyclopædia he wrote articles about chemistry, geology and mineralogy, but the topics are not known. References External links The Aikin Family Papers, D.190, at Rare Books, Special Collections, and Preservation, River Campus Libraries, University of Rochester. 1773 births 1854 deaths English mineralogists 19th-century British chemists People from Warrington Fellows of the Linnean Society of London People from Hoxton English Unitarians Anna Laetitia Barbauld 18th-century English writers 18th-century English male writers 19th-century English writers
Ailanthus (; derived from ailanto, an Ambonese word probably meaning "tree of the gods" or "tree of heaven") is a genus of trees belonging to the family Simaroubaceae, in the order Sapindales (formerly Rutales or Geraniales). The genus is native from east Asia south to northern Australasia. Selected species The number of living species is disputed, with some authorities accepting up to ten species, while others accept six or fewer. Species include: Ailanthus altissima (tree of heaven, syn. A. vilmoriniana ) – northern and central mainland China, Taiwan. Invasive in North America, Europe, Britain, and Australia. Serves as central metaphor in A Tree Grows in Brooklyn. Ailanthus excelsa – India and Sri Lanka Ailanthus fordii – China Ailanthus integrifolia – New Guinea and Queensland, Australia Ailanthus triphysa (white siris syn. A. malabarica) – India, South-east Asia and Australia Ailanthus vietnamensis – Vietnam There is a good fossil record of Ailanthus with many species names based on their geographic occurrence, but almost all of these have very similar morphology and have been grouped as a single species among the three species recognized: Ailanthus tardensis – from a single locality in Hungary Ailanthus confucii – Tertiary period, Europe, Asia, and North America Ailanthus gigas – from a single locality in Slovenia Ailanthus pythii – known from the Miocene of Iceland, Styria in Austria and the Gavdos island in Greece Ailanthus kurzii – endemic to the Andaman Islands, India Ailanthus silk moth A silk spinning moth, the ailanthus silkmoth (Samia cynthia), lives on Ailanthus leaves, and yields a silk more durable and cheaper than mulberry silk, but inferior to it in fineness and gloss. This moth has been introduced to the eastern United States and is common near many towns; it is about 12 cm across, with angulated wings, and in color olive brown, with white markings. Other Lepidoptera whose larvae feed on Ailanthus include Endoclita malabaricus. See also Spotted lanternfly References Germplasm Resources Information Network: Ailanthus Plant Conservation Alliance's Alien Plant Working Group: Least Wanted Sapindales genera
Aimoin of Fleury (; ), French chronicler, was born at Villefranche-de-Longchat, Southwestern France about 960. Early in his life he entered the monastery of Fleury, where he became a monk and then passed the greater part of his life. Between c. 980 and 985 Aimoin wrote about St. Benedict in Abbey of Fleury-sur-Loire. His chief work is a Historia Francorum, or Libri V. de Gestis Francorum, which deals with the history of the Franks from the earliest times to 653, and was continued by other writers until the middle of the twelfth century. It was much in vogue during the Middle Ages, but its historical value is now regarded as slight. It was edited by G. Waitz and published in the Monumenta Germaniae Historica: Scriptores, Band xxvi (Hanover and Berlin, 1826–1892). In 1004 he also wrote Vita Abbonis, abbatis Floriacensis, the last of a series of lives of the abbots of Fleury, all of which, except the life of Abbo, have been lost. This was published by J. Mabillon in the Acta sanctorum ordinis sancti Benedicti (Paris, 1668–1701). Aimoin's third work was the composition of books ii and iii of the Miracula sancti Benedicti, the first book of which was written by another monk of Fleury named Adrevald ( - 878). This also appears in the Acta sanctorum. References External links Opera Omnia by Migne Patrologia Latina with analytical indices 960s births Year of birth unknown 1010s deaths Year of death unknown French chroniclers French Christian monks 11th-century French historians 11th-century writers in Latin
Ajax may refer to: Greek mythology and tragedy Ajax the Great, a Greek mythological hero, son of King Telamon and Periboea Ajax the Lesser, a Greek mythological hero, son of Oileus, the king of Locris Ajax (play), by the ancient Greek tragedian Sophocles, about Ajax the Great Arts and entertainment Fictional characters Ajax Duckman, in the animated television series Duckman Marvel Comics: Ajax the Greater, another name for Ajak, one of the Eternals from Marvel Comics Ajax the Lesser, another name for Arex, one of the Eternals from Marvel Comics Ajax, a member of the Pantheon appearing in Marvel Comics Ajax (Francis Fanny), a fictional supervillain first appearing in Deadpool #14 Martian Manhunter, a DC Comics superhero called Ajax in Brazil and Portugal Ajax, a Call of Duty: Black Ops 4 operative Ajax, from the video game Genshin Impact Music A-Jax (band), a South Korean boy band Ajax (band), an electronic music band from New York City Ajax (opera), by the French composer Toussaint Bertin de la Doué DJ Ajax (1971-2013; born Adrian Thomas), an Australian electro mashup DJ Lisa Ajax (born 1998), Swedish singer "Ajax" (song), a song by Tante Leen, 1969 Ajax Records, a former North American record company Other arts and entertainment Ajax (painting), a painting by John Steuart Curry Ajax (Disney), a fictional company (the Disney equivalent of Looney Tunes' Acme Corporation) A-Jax (video game), a 1987 Konami arcade game Computing Ajax (floppy disk controller), a floppy disk controller fitted to the Atari STE Ajax (programming), Asynchronous JavaScript and XML, a method used in web application development, and a software framework for it Places Canada Ajax (federal electoral district), in the Durham Region of Ontario Ajax (provincial electoral district), in Ontario Ajax, Ontario, a town in the Greater Toronto Area United States Ajax, Louisiana, an unincorporated community Ajax, Missouri, a ghost town Ajax Peak, a summit near Telluride, Colorado Ajax, South Dakota, an unincorporated community Ajax, Utah, a ghost town Ajax, Virginia, an unincorporated community Ajax, West Virginia, an unincorporated community Aspen Mountain (Colorado), also known as Ajax Mountain Elsewhere Mount Ajax, part of the Admiralty Mountains, Victoria Land, Antarctic 1404 Ajax, an asteroid People Ajax (missionary), Arian missionary who converted the Suevi to Christianity ( 466) Ajax, pen name of Sidney William Jackson (1873–1946), Australian naturalist and ornithologist Ajax, nickname of Heinrich Bleichrodt (1909–1977), German World War II U-boat commander Sport Association football (soccer) AFC Ajax, a football club in Amsterdam, Netherlands Ajax Cape Town F.C., a South African football club Ajax Futebol Clube, a Brazilian football club Ajax de Ouenzé, a Congolese football club FC Ajax Lasnamäe, an Estonian football club Ajax Orlando Prospects, American soccer team from Orlando, Florida, a.k.a. Ajax America Ajax America Women, American women's soccer team from California Aias Salamina F.C., a football club in Salamina, Greece Ajax Sportsman Combinatie, a cricket and football club in Leiden, Netherlands Rabat Ajax F.C., a Maltese football club Unión Ájax, a football club in Trujillo, Honduras Voetbal Vereniging Ajax, a Surinamese football club Other sports Ajax Kenitra, a Moroccan futsal (indoor football) club Ajax København, a Danish handball team Ajax (horse) (born 1901), a French Champion racehorse Ajax II (born 1934), an Australian Champion racehorse Military , several ships of the Royal Navy , several ships of the US Navy General Dynamics Ajax, a family of armoured fighting vehicles for the British Army Operation Ajax, the 1953 Iranian coup d'état Transport Ajax (1906 automobile), a Swiss automobile Ajax (1913 automobile), a French automobile by the American Briscoe brothers Ajax (1914 automobile), an American automobile by Ajax Motors Co. of Seattle, Washington Ajax (1921 automobile), an American prototype that was not produced Ajax (Nash Motors), an automobile brand of Nash Motors, 1925–1926 Ajax (locomotive), several train locomotives Ajax (motorcycle), manufactured in England between 1923 and 1924 Ajax (crane barge), a floating crane used to install the Panama Canal locks Ajax (ship), various ships Ajax GO Station, a train and bus station in Ajax, Ontario, Canada Ajax Motors Co., an American carmaker, manufacturer of the Ajax (1914 automobile) Other uses Ajax (cleaning product), a brand of household cleaning products AFC Ajax N.V., a sports company associated with AFC Ajax Kanichee Mine, Temagami, Ontario, also known as Ajax Mine Ajax High School, a public high school in Ajax, Ontario, Canada AJAX furnace, a type of open hearth furnace See also Nike Ajax, the world's first operational surface-to-air missile Ayaks, a hypersonic waverider aircraft program started in the Soviet Union
Alaric II (, , "ruler of all"; ; – August 507) was the King of the Visigoths from 484 until 507. He succeeded his father Euric as king of the Visigoths in Toulouse on 28 December 484; he was the great-grandson of the more famous Alaric I, who sacked Rome in 410. He established his capital at Aire-sur-l'Adour (Vicus Julii) in Aquitaine. His dominions included not only the majority of Hispania (excluding its northwestern corner) but also Gallia Aquitania and the greater part of an as-yet undivided Gallia Narbonensis. Reign Herwig Wolfram opens his chapter on the eighth Visigothic king, "Alaric's reign gets no full treatment in the sources, and the little they do contain is overshadowed by his death in the Battle of Vouillé and the downfall of the Toulosan kingdom." One example is Isidore of Seville's account of Alaric's reign: consisting of a single paragraph, it is primarily about Alaric's death in that battle. The earliest-documented event in Alaric's reign concerned providing refuge to Syagrius, the former ruler of the Domain of Soissons (in what is now northwestern France) who had been defeated by Clovis I, King of the Franks. According to Gregory of Tours' account, Alaric was intimidated by Clovis into surrendering Syagrius to Clovis; Gregory then adds that "the Goths are a timorous race." The Franks then imprisoned Syagrius, and once his control over Syagrius' former kingdom was secure, Clovis had him beheaded. However, Wolfram points out that at the time "Clovis got no farther than the Seine; only after several more years did the Franks succeed in occupying the rest of the Gallo-Roman buffer state north of the Loire." Any threat of war Clovis could make would only be effective if they were neighbors; "it is nowhere written that Syagrius was handed over in 486 or 487." Despite Frankish advances in the years that followed, Alaric was not afraid to take the military initiative when it presented itself. In 490, Alaric assisted his fellow Gothic king, Theodoric the Great, in his conquest of Italy by dispatching an army to raise Odoacer's siege of Pavia, where Theodoric had been trapped. Then when the Franks attacked the Burgundians in the decade after 500, Alaric assisted the ruling house, and according to Wolfram the victorious Burgundian king Gundobad ceded Avignon to Alaric. By 502 Clovis and Alaric met on an island in the Loire near Amboise for face-to-face talks, which led to a peace treaty. In 506, the Visigoths captured the city of Dertosa in the Ebro valley. There they captured the Roman usurper Peter and had him executed. Battle of Vouillé and aftermath After a few years, however, Clovis violated the peace treaty negotiated in 502. Despite the diplomatic intervention of Theodoric, king of the Ostrogoths and father-in-law of Alaric, Clovis led his followers into Visigothic territory. Alaric was forced by his magnates to meet Clovis in the Battle of Vouillé (summer 507) near Poitiers; there the Goths were defeated and Alaric slain, according to Gregory of Tours, by Clovis himself. The most serious consequence of this battle was not the loss of their possessions in Gaul to the Franks; with Ostrogothic help, much of the Gallic territory was recovered, Herwig Wolfram notes, perhaps as far as Toulouse. Nor was it the loss of the royal treasury at Toulouse, which Gregory of Tours writes Clovis took into his possession. As Peter Heather notes, the Visigothic kingdom was thrown into disarray "by the death of its king in battle." Alaric's heirs were his eldest son, the illegitimate Gesalec, and his younger son, the legitimate Amalaric who was still a child. Gesalec proved incompetent, and in 511 King Theodoric assumed the throne of the kingdom ostensibly on behalf of Amalaric—Heather uses the word "hijacked" to describe his action. Although Amalaric eventually became king in his own right, the political continuity of the Visigothic kingdom was broken; "Amalaric's succession was the result of new power structures, not old ones," as Heather describes it. With Amalaric's death in 531, the Visigothic kingdom entered an extended period of unrest which lasted until Leovigild assumed the throne in 569. Ability as king In religion Alaric was an Arian, like all the early Visigothic nobles, but he greatly mitigated the persecution policy of his father Euric toward the Catholics and authorized them to hold in 506 the council of Agde. He was on uneasy terms with the Catholic bishops of Arelate (modern Arles) as epitomized in the career of the Gallo-Roman Caesarius, bishop of Arles, who was appointed bishop in 503. Caesarius was suspected of conspiring with the Burgundians, whose king had married the sister of Clovis, to assist the Burgundians capture Arles. Alaric exiled him for a year to Bordeaux in Aquitania, then allowed him to return unharmed when the crisis had passed. Alaric displayed similar wisdom in political affairs by appointing a commission headed by the referendary Anianus to prepare an abstract of the Roman laws and imperial decrees, which would form the authoritative code for his Roman subjects. This is generally known as the Breviarium Alaricianum or Breviary of Alaric. Legacy The (Alaric's Mountain), near Carcassonne, is named after the Visigoth king. Local rumour has it that he left a vast treasure buried in the caves beneath the mountain. The (Alaric's Canal) in the Hautes-Pyrénées department is named after him. References Further reading Edward Gibbon, History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire Chapter 38 Alarico II , Diccionario biográfico español, Luis Agustín García Moreno, Real Academia de la Historia. Balt dynasty Ancient child monarchs 507 deaths 5th-century Visigothic monarchs 6th-century Visigothic monarchs Monarchs killed in action Year of birth unknown Year of birth uncertain
Alcamenes () was an ancient Greek sculptor of Lemnos and Athens, who flourished in the 2nd half of the 5th century BC. He was a younger contemporary of Phidias and noted for the delicacy and finish of his works, among which a Hephaestus and an Aphrodite of the Gardens were conspicuous. Pausanias says that he was the author of one of the pediments of the temple of Zeus at Olympia, but this seems a chronological and stylistic impossibility. Pausanias also refers to a statue of Ares by Alcamenes that was erected on the Athenian agora, which some have related to the Ares Borghese. However, the temple of Ares to which he refers had only been moved from Acharnes and re-sited in the Agora in Augustus's time, and statues known to derive from Alcamenes' statue show the god in a breastplate, so the identification of Alcamenes' Ares with the Ares Borghese is not secure. At Pergamum there was discovered in 1903 a Hellenistic copy of the head of the Hermes "Propylaeus" of Alcamenes. As, however, the deity is represented in a Neo-Attic, archaistic and conventional character, this copy cannot be relied on as giving us much information as to the usual style of Alcamenes, who was almost certainly a progressive and original artist. It is safer to judge him by the sculptural decoration of the Parthenon, in which he must almost certainly have taken a share under the direction of Phidias. He is said to be the most eminent sculptor in Athens after the departure of Phidias for Olympia, but enigmatic in that none of the sculptures associated with his name in classical literature can be securely connected with existing copies. Notes References Julius Sillig, Dictionary of the artists of antiquity; 1837 Andrew Stewart, One hundred Greek Sculptors : Their Careers and Extant Works Sir Charles Waldstein, Alcamenes and the establishment of the classical type in Greek art; 1926 External links Scholars Resource: Works by Alkamenes Perseus Digital Library: Alcamenes Herma by Alcamenes - Uni Graz Pergamene sculpture 5th-century BC Greek sculptors Ancient Athenian sculptors Ancient Lemnos Metics in Classical Athens People from Lemnos Year of birth unknown Year of death unknown
In Greek mythology, Alcmene ( ; ) or Alcmena ( ; ; ; meaning "strong in wrath") was the wife of Amphitryon, by whom she bore two children, Iphicles and Laonome. She is best known as the mother of Heracles, whose father was the god Zeus. Alcmene was also referred to as Electryone (), a patronymic name as a daughter of Electryon. Mythology Background According to the Bibliotheca, Alcmene was born to Electryon, the son of Perseus and Andromeda, and king of Tiryns and Mycenae or Medea in Argolis. Her mother was Anaxo, daughter of Alcaeus and Astydamia. Other accounts say her mother was Lysidice, the daughter of Pelops and Hippodameia, or Eurydice, the daughter of Pelops. According to Pausanias, the poet Asius made Alcmene the daughter of Amphiaraus and Eriphyle. Hesiod describes Alcmene as the tallest, most beautiful woman with wisdom surpassed by no person born of mortal parents. It is said that her face and dark eyes were as charming as Aphrodite's, and that she honoured her husband like no woman before her. Exile to Thebes According to the Bibliotheca, Alcmene went with Amphitryon to Thebes, where he was purified by Creon for accidentally killing Electryon. Alcmene refused to marry Amphitryon until he had avenged the death of her brothers. During Amphitryon's expedition against the Taphians and Teleboans, when Zeus desired to sleep with Alcmene, he made one night last longer extending it to three, by ordering Helios, the sun god, not to rise for three whole days. He then visited Alcmene disguised as Amphitryon. Zeus persuaded Alcmene that he was her husband. Thus Zeus slept with Alcmene, his great-granddaughter, thereby conceiving Heracles, while recounting Amphitryon's victories against the Teleboans. When Amphitryon finally returned to Thebes, Alcmene told him that he had come the night before and slept with her; he learned from Tiresias what Zeus had done. Birth of Heracles Homer In Homer's Iliad, when Alcmene was about to give birth to Heracles, Zeus announced to all the gods that on that day a child by Zeus himself would be born and rule all those around him. Hera, after requesting Zeus to swear an oath to that effect, descended from Olympus to Argos and made the wife of Sthenelus (son of Perseus) give birth to Eurystheus after only seven months, while at the same time preventing Alcmene from delivering Heracles. This resulted in the fulfillment of Zeus's oath in that it was Eurystheus rather than Heracles. Ovid According to Ovid's Metamorphoses, while in labour, Alcmene was having great difficulty giving birth to such a large child. After seven days and nights of agony, Alcmene stretched out her arms and called upon Lucina, the goddess of childbirth (the Roman equivalent of Eileithyia). While Lucina did go to Alcmene, she had been previously instructed by Juno (Hera) to prevent the delivery. With her hands clasped and legs crossed, Lucina muttered charms, thereby preventing Alcmene from giving birth. Alcmene writhed in pain, cursed the heavens, and came close to death. Galanthis, a maid of Alcmene who was nearby, observed Lucina's behaviour and quickly deduced that it was Juno's doing. To put an end to her mistress's suffering, she announced that Alcmene had safely delivered her child, which surprised Lucina so much that she immediately jumped up and unclenched her hands. As soon as Lucina leapt up, Alcmene was released from her spell, and gave birth to Heracles. As punishment for deceiving Lucina, Galanthis was transformed into a weasel; she continued to live with Alcmene. Pausanias In Pausanias' recounting, Hera sent witches (as they were called by the Thebans) to hinder Alcmene's delivery of Heracles. The witches were successful in preventing the birth until Historis, daughter of Tiresias, thought of a trick to deceive the witches. Like Galanthis, Historis announced that Alcmene had delivered her child; having been deceived, the witches went away, allowing Alcmene to give birth. Plautus In contrast to the depictions of a difficult labor above, an alternative version is presented in Amphitryon, a comedic play by Plautus. Here Alcmene calls upon Jupiter, who performs a miracle allowing her to give birth quickly and without pain. After a crash of thunder and light, the baby arrives without anyone's assistance. Death After the death of Amphitryon, Alcmene married Rhadamanthys, son of Zeus, and lived with him in exile at Ocaleae in Boeotia. It is said that after Heracles was apotheosised, Hyllus, having pursued and killed Eurystheus, cut off Eurystheus' head and gave it to Alcmene, who gouged out the eyes with weaving pins. In Metamorphoses, an aging Alcmene recounted the story of the birth of Heracles to Iole. There are two accounts of Alcmene's death. In the first, according to the Megarians, Alcmene was walking from Argos to Thebes when she died at Megara. The Heracleidae fell into disagreement about where to take Alcmene's body, with some wishing to take her corpse back to Argos, and others wishing to take it to Thebes to be buried with Amphitryon and Heracles' children by Megara. However, the god in Delphi gave the Heracleidae an oracle that it was better to bury Alcmene in Megara. In the second account given by the Thebans, when Alcmene died, she was turned from human form to a stone. Pausanias indicated that an altar to Alcmene had been built in the Cynosarges in Athens, alongside altars to Heracles, Hebe, and Iolaus. Pausanias also said that Alcmene's tomb is located near the Olympieum at Megara. Notes References Apollodorus. Apollodorus, The Library, with an English Translation by Sir James George Frazer, F.B.A., F.R.S. in 2 Volumes. Cambridge, Massachusetts, Harvard University Press; London, William Heinemann Ltd. 1921. Diodorus Siculus, The Library of History, Oldfather, C. H. (Translator) (1935). Library of History: Loeb Classical Library. Cambridge, Massachusetts.: Harvard University Press. Hesiod. The Homeric Hymns and Homerica with an English Translation by Hugh G. Evelyn-White. "Shield of Heracles". Cambridge, Massachusetts.,Harvard University Press; London, William Heinemann Ltd. 1914. Homer. The Iliad with an English Translation by A.T. Murray, Ph.D. in two volumes. Cambridge, Massachusetts., Harvard University Press; London, William Heinemann, Ltd. 1924. Ovid. Metamorphoses. Arthur Golding. London. W. Seres. 1567. Pausanias. Pausanias Description of Greece with an English Translation by W.H.S. Jones, Litt.D., and H.A. Ormerod, M.A., in 4 Volumes. Cambridge, Massachusetts, Harvard University Press; London, William Heinemann Ltd. 1918. Plutarch. Plutarch's Lives with an English Translation by Bernadotte Perrin. Cambridge, Massachusetts. Harvard University Press. London. William Heinemann Ltd. 1914. Plautus. The Comedies of Plautus. Henry Thomas Riley. London. G. Bell and Sons. 1912. Smith, William; Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology, London (1873). "Alcmene" Mortal women of Zeus Princesses in Greek mythology Perseid dynasty Mythology of Argos Mythology of Heracles Metamorphoses characters Mythological rape victims Helios in mythology Deeds of Hera Metamorphoses into inanimate objects in Greek mythology
Alcidamas (), of Elaea, in Aeolis, was a Greek sophist and rhetorician, who flourished in the 5th-4th century BC . Life He was the pupil and successor of Gorgias and taught at Athens at the same time as Isocrates, to whom he was a rival and opponent. We possess two declamations under his name: On Sophists (Περὶ Σοφιστῶν), directed against Isocrates and setting forth the superiority of extempore over written speeches (a more recently discovered fragment of another speech against Isocrates is probably of later date); Odysseus (perhaps spurious) in which Odysseus accuses Palamedes of treachery during the siege of Troy. According to Alcidamas, the highest aim of the orator was the power of speaking ex tempore on every conceivable subject. Aristotle (Rhet. iii. 3) criticizes his writings as characterized by pomposity of style and an extravagant use of poetical epithets and compounds and far-fetched metaphors. Of other works only fragments and the titles have survived: Messeniakos, advocating the freedom of the Messenians and containing the sentiment that "God has left all men free; nature has made no man a slave"; a Eulogy of Death, in consideration of the wide extent of human sufferings; a Techne or instruction-book in the art of rhetoric; and a Phusikos logos. Lastly, his Mouseion (a word invoking the Muses) seems to have contained the narrative of the Contest of Homer and Hesiod, of which the version that has survived is the work of a grammarian in the time of Hadrian, based on Alcidamas. This hypothesis of the contents of the Mouseion, originally suggested by Nietzsche (Rheinisches Museum 25 (1870) & 28 (1873)), appears to have been confirmed by three papyrus findsone 3rd century BC (Flinders Petrie Papyri, ed. Mahaffy, 1891, pl. xxv.), one 2nd century BC (Basil Mandilaras, 'A new papyrus fragment of the Certamen Homeri et Hesiodi''' Platon 42 (1990) 45–51) and one 2nd or 3rd century AD (University of Michigan pap. 2754: Winter, J. G., 'A New Fragment on the Life of Homer' TAPA 56 (1925) 120–129 ). Notes References O'Sullivan, N. (2008) 'The authenticity of [Alcidamas] Odysseus: two new linguistic arguments', Classical Quarterly 58, 638-647 Further reading Alcidamas' surviving works Guido Avezzù (ed.), Alcidamante. Orazioni e frammenti (now the standard text, with Italian translation, 1982) J.V. Muir (ed.), Alcidamas. The works and fragments (text with English translation, 2001) – reviewed in BMCR Ruth Mariss, Alkidamas: Über diejenigen, die schriftliche Reden schreiben, oder über die Sophisten: eine Sophistenrede aus dem 4. Jh. v. Chr., eingeleitet und kommentiert (Orbis Antiquus, 36), 2002 Friedrich Blass, Teubner edition of the Greek text (1908) online Alcidamas, "Against the Sophists," trans. Van Hook (1919) About Alcidamas Aristotle, Rhetoric III.3 J. Vahlen, "Der Rhetor Alkidamas", Sitzungsberichte der wiener Akademie, Phil.-Hist. Cl., 43 (1863) 491–528 online(=Gesammelte philologische Schriften (Leipzig & Berlin 1911) 1.117–155) Friedrich Blass, Die attische Beredsamkeit'', part 2 (1892) online, pp. 345–363 M.L. West (1967) for Alcidamas' invention of the contest of Homer and Hesiod , N.J. Richardson (1981) against Various articles on Alcidamas (1856–1919, with links to further online material) Additional bibliography is available online at Sophists Ancient Greek rhetoricians 4th-century BC Greek people
Alexander I of Epirus (; c. 370 BC – 331 BC), also known as Alexander Molossus (), was a king of Epirus (343/2–331 BC) of the Aeacid dynasty. As the son of Neoptolemus I and brother of Olympias, Alexander I was an uncle, and a brother-in-law, of Alexander the Great. He was also an uncle to Pyrrhus of Epirus. Life Neoptolemus I ruled jointly with his brother Arybbas. When Neoptolemus died in c. 357 BC, his son Alexander was only a child and Arrybas became the sole king. In c. 350 BC, Alexander was brought to the court of Philip II of Macedon in order to protect him. In 343/2 in his late 20s, Philip made him king of Epirus, after dethroning his uncle Arybbas. When Olympias was repudiated by her husband in 337 BC, she went to her brother, and endeavoured to induce him to make war on Philip. Alexander, however, declined the contest, and formed a second alliance with Philip by agreeing to marry the daughter of Philip (Alexander's niece) Cleopatra. During the wedding in 336 BC, Philip was assassinated by Pausanias of Orestis. In 334 BC, Alexander I, at the request of the Greek colony of Taras (in Magna Graecia), crossed over into Italy, to aid them in battle against several Italic tribes, including the Lucanians and Bruttii. After a victory over the Samnites and Lucanians near Paestum in 332 BC, he made a treaty with the Romans. He then took Heraclea from the Lucanians, and Terina and Sipontum from the Bruttii. Through the treachery of some Lucanian exiles, he was compelled to engage under unfavourable circumstances in the Battle of Pandosia and was killed by a Lucanian. He left a son, Neoptolemus, and a daughter, Cadmea. In a famous passage, Livy speculates on what would have been the outcome of a military showdown between Alexander the Great and the Roman Republic. He reports that as Alexander of Epirus lay mortally wounded on the battlefield at Pandosia he compared his fortunes to those of his famous nephew and said that the latter "waged war against women". References External links Lendering, Jona. "Alexander of Molossis". Livius.org, 2004. Birth and kingship dates are incorrect) 370s BC births Year of birth unknown 331 BC deaths Kings of Epirus 4th-century BC Greek monarchs Ancient Greek generals Family of Alexander the Great Monarchs killed in action Ancient Greeks killed in battle Courtiers of Philip II of Macedon Ancient Epirotes
Alexander () was Tyrant or Despot of Pherae in Thessaly, ruling from 369 to c. 356 BC. Following the assassination of Jason, the tyrant of Pherae and Tagus of Thessaly, in 370 BC, his brother Polyphron ruled for a year, but he was then poisoned by Alexander who assumed power himself. Alexander governed tyrannically and was constantly seeking to control Thessaly and the kingdom of Macedonia. He also engaged in piratical raids on Attica. Alexander was murdered by Tisiphonus, Lycophron and Peitholaus, the brothers of his wife, Thebe, as it was said that she lived in fear of her husband and hated Alexander's cruel and brutal character. Reign The accounts of how Alexander came to power vary somewhat in minor points. Diodorus Siculus tells us that upon the assassination of the tyrant Jason of Pherae, in 370 BC, his brother Polydorus ruled for a year, but he was then poisoned by Alexander, another brother. However, according to Xenophon, Polydorus was murdered by his brother Polyphron, who was, in turn, murdered by his nephew Alexander —son of Jason, in 369 BC. Plutarch relates that Alexander worshipped the spear he slew his uncle with as if it were a god. Alexander governed tyrannically, and according to Diodorus, differently from the former rulers, but Polyphron, at least, seems to have set him the example. The states of Thessaly, which had previously acknowledged the authority of Jason of Pherae, were not so willing to submit to Alexander the tyrant, (especially the old family of the Aleuadae of Larissa, who had most reason to fear him). Therefore, they applied for help from Alexander II of Macedon. Alexander prepared to meet his enemy in Macedonia, but the king anticipated him, and, reaching Larissa, was admitted into the city. Alexander withdrew to Pherae whilst the Macedonian King placed a garrison in Larissa, as well as in Crannon, which had also come over to him. But once the bulk of the Macedonian army had retired, the states of Thessaly feared the return and vengeance of Alexander, and so sent for aid to Thebes, whose policy it was to put a check on any neighbour who might otherwise become too formidable. Thebes accordingly dispatched Pelopidas to the aid of Thessaly. On arrival of Pelopidas at Larissa, whence according to Diodorus, he dislodged the Macedonian garrison, Alexander presented himself and offered submission. When Pelopidas expressed indignation at the tales of Alexander's profligacy and cruelty, Alexander took alarm and fled. These events appear to refer to the early part of 368 BC. In the summer of that year Pelopidas was again sent into Thessaly, in consequence of fresh complaints against Alexander. Accompanied by Ismenias, he went merely as a negotiator, without any military force, and was seized by Alexander and thrown into prison. The scholar William Mitford suggested that Pelopidas was taken prisoner in battle, but the language of Demosthenes hardly supports such an inference. The Thebans sent a large army into Thessaly to rescue Pelopidas, but they could not keep the field against the superior cavalry of Alexander, who, aided by auxiliaries from Athens, pursued them with great slaughter. The destruction of the whole Theban army is said to only have been averted by the ability of Epaminondas, who was serving in the campaign, but not as general. In 367 BC, Alexander carried out a massacre of the citizens of Scotussa. A fresh Theban expedition into Thessaly, under Epaminondas resulted, according to Plutarch, in a three-year truce and the release of prisoners, including Pelopidas. During the next three years, Alexander seemed to renew his attempts to subdue the states of Thessaly, especially Magnesia and Phthiotis, for upon the expiry of the truce, in 364 BC, they again applied to Thebes for protection from him. The Theban army under Pelopidas is said to have been dismayed by an eclipse on 13 July 364 BC, and Pelopidas, leaving the bulk of his army behind, entered Thessaly at the head of three hundred volunteer horsemen and some mercenaries. At Cynoscephalae, the Thebans defeated Alexander, but Pelopidas was killed. This was closely followed by another Theban victory under Malcites and Diogiton. Alexander was then forced to restore the conquered towns to the Thessalians, confine himself to Pherae, join the Boeotian League, and become a dependent ally of Thebes. If the death of Epaminondas in 362 freed Athens from fear of Thebes, it appears at the same time to have exposed it to further aggression from Alexander, who made a piratical raid on Tinos and other cities of the Cyclades, plundering them, and making slaves of the inhabitants. He also besieged Peparethus, and "even landed troops in Attica itself, and seized the port of Panormus, a little eastward of Sounion." The Athenian admiral Leosthenes defeated Alexander and managed to relieve Peparethus, but Alexander escaped from being blockaded in Panormus, took several Attic triremes, and plundered the Piraeus. Death The murder of Alexander is assigned by Diodorus to 357/356. Plutarch gives a detailed account of it, with a lively picture of the palace. Guards watched throughout the night, except at Alexander's bedchamber, which was at the top of a ladder with a ferocious chained dog guarding the door. Thebe, Alexander's wife and cousin (or half-sister, as the daughter of Jason of Pherae), concealed her three brothers (Tisiphonus, Lycophron and Peitholaus) in the house during the day, had the dog removed when Alexander had gone to rest, and, having covered the steps of the ladder with wool, brought up the young men to her husband's chamber. Though she had taken away Alexander's sword, they feared to set about the deed until she threatened to wake him. Her brothers then entered and killed Alexander. His body was cast into the streets, and exposed to every indignity. Of Thebe's motive for the murder different accounts are given. Plutarch states it to have been fear of her husband, together with hatred of Alexander's cruel and brutal character, and ascribes these feelings principally to the representations of Pelopidas, when she visited him in his prison. In Cicero the deed is ascribed to jealousy. Other accounts have it that Alexander had taken Thebe's youngest brother as his eromenos and tied him up. Exasperated by his wife's pleas to release the youth, he murdered the boy, which drove her to revenge. Other It is written in Plutarch's Second Oration On the Fortune or the Virtue of Alexander the Great (see Moralia), and in Claudius Aelianus' Varia Historia that Alexander left a tragedy in a theatre because he did not wish to weep at fiction when unmoved by his own cruelty. This suggests that while Alexander was a tyrant, perhaps his iron heart could be softened. The actor was threatened with punishment because Alexander was so moved while watching. References Other sources 4th-century BC Greek people Ancient Greek monarchs Thessalian kings Ancient Greeks who were murdered Year of birth unknown 350s BC deaths People from Feres
Alexander II (Greek: Άλέξανδρος) was a king of Epirus, and the son of Pyrrhus and Lanassa, the daughter of the Sicilian tyrant Agathocles. Reign He succeeded his father as king in 272 BC, and continued the war which his father had begun with Antigonus II Gonatas, whom he succeeded in driving from the kingdom of Macedon. He was, however, dispossessed of both Macedon and Epirus by Demetrius II of Macedon, the son of Antigonus II; upon which he took refuge amongst the Acarnanians. By their assistance and that of his own subjects, who entertained a great attachment for him, he recovered Epirus. It appears that he was in alliance with the Aetolians. Alexander married his paternal half-sister Olympias, by whom he had two sons, Pyrrhus ΙΙ, Ptolemy ΙΙ and a daughter, Phthia. Beloch places the death of King Alexander II "about 255", and supports this date with an elaborate chain of reasoning. On the death of Alexander, Olympias assumed the regency on behalf of her sons, and married Phthia to Demetrius. There are extant silver and copper coins of this king. The former bear a youthful head covered with the skin of an elephant's head. The reverse represents Pallas holding a spear in one hand and a shield in the other, and before her stands an eagle on a thunderbolt. References Sources Connop Thirlwall, History of Greece, vol. viii Johann Gustav Droysen, Hellenismus Benediktus Niese, Geschichte der griechischen und makedonischen Staaten Karl Julius Beloch, Griechische Geschichte vol. iii. Buddhism in the ancient Mediterranean Kings of Epirus 3rd-century BC Greek people 3rd-century BC monarchs in Europe Pyrrhus of Epirus Year of birth unknown 240s BC deaths
Alexander Jagiellon (; ; 5 August 1461 – 19 August 1506) of the House of Jagiellon was Grand Duke of Lithuania from 1492 and King of Poland from 1501 until his death in 1506. He was the fourth son of Casimir IV Jagiellon. He was elected grand duke of Lithuania upon the death of his father and king of Poland upon the death of his brother John I Albert. Biography Alexander was born as the fourth son of King Casimir IV of Poland and Elisabeth, daughter of the King Albert of Hungary. At the time of his father's death in 1492, his eldest brother Vladislaus had already become king of Bohemia (1471) and Hungary and Croatia (1490), and the next oldest brother, Casimir, had died (1484) after leading an ascetic and pious life in his final years, resulting in his eventual canonization. While the third oldest brother, John I Albert was chosen by the Polish nobility (szlachta) to be the next king of Poland, the Lithuanians instead elected Alexander to be their next grand duke. The greatest challenge that Alexander faced upon assuming control of the grand duchy was an attack on Lithuania by Grand Duke Ivan III of Russia and his allies, the Tatars of the Crimean Khanate, which commenced shortly after his accession. Ivan III considered himself the heir to the lands of Kievan Rus', and was striving to take back the territory previously gained by Lithuania. Unable to successfully stop the incursions, Alexander sent a delegation to Moscow to make a peace settlement, which was signed in 1494 and ceded extensive land over to Ivan. In an additional effort to instill a peace between the two countries, Alexander was betrothed to Helena, the daughter of Ivan III; they were married in Vilnius on 15 February 1495. The peace did not last long, however, as Ivan III resumed hostilities in 1500. The most Alexander could do was to garrison Smolensk and other strongholds and employ his wife Helena to mediate another truce between him and her father after the disastrous Battle of Vedrosha (1500). In the terms of this truce, Lithuania had to surrender about a third of its territory to the nascent expansionist Russian state. On 17 June 1501, Alexander's older brother John I Albert died suddenly, and Alexander was crowned king of Poland on 12 December of that year. Alexander's shortage of funds immediately made him subservient to the Polish Senate and szlachta, who deprived him of control of the mint (then one of the most lucrative sources of revenue for the Polish kings), curtailed his prerogatives, and generally endeavored to reduce him to a subordinate position. In 1505, the Sejm passed the Act of Nihil novi, which forbade the king to issue laws without the consent of the nobility, represented by the two legislative chambers, except for laws governing royal cities, crown lands, mines, fiefdoms, royal peasants, and Jews. This was another step in Poland's progression towards a "Noble's Democracy". During Alexander's reign, Poland suffered additional humiliation at the hands of her subject principality, Moldavia. Only the death of Stephen, the great hospodar of Moldavia, enabled Poland still to hold her own on the Danube River. Meanwhile, the liberality of Pope Julius II, who issued no fewer than 29 bulls in favor of Poland and granted Alexander Peter's Pence and other financial help, enabled him to restrain somewhat the arrogance of the Teutonic Order. Alexander Jagiellon never felt at home in Poland, and bestowed his favor principally upon his fellow Lithuanians, the most notable of whom was the wealthy Lithuanian magnate Michael Glinski, who justified his master's confidence by his great victory over the Tatars at Kleck (5 August 1506), news of which was brought to Alexander on his deathbed in Vilnius. Alexander was the last known ruler of the Gediminid dynasty to have maintained the family's ancestral Lithuanian language. After his death, Polish became the sole language of the family, thus fully Polonising the Jagiellons. In 1931, during the refurbishment of Vilnius Cathedral, the forgotten sarcophagus of Alexander was discovered, and has since been put on display. Gallery See also History of Poland (1385–1569) Rachela Fiszel Sejm walny St. Anne's Church, Vilnius References External links Pages and Forums on the Lithuanian History 1461 births 1506 deaths 16th-century monarchs in Europe 16th-century Polish monarchs Kings of Poland Grand Dukes of Lithuania Polish Roman Catholics Jagiellonian dynasty Burials at Vilnius Cathedral Nobility from Kraków
Alexander I (medieval Gaelic: Alaxandair mac Maíl Coluim; modern Gaelic: Alasdair mac Mhaol Chaluim; c. 1078 – 23 April 1124), posthumously nicknamed The Fierce, was the King of Scotland from 1107 to his death. He succeeded his brother, King Edgar, and his successor was his brother David. He was married to Sybilla of Normandy, an illegitimate daughter of Henry I of England. Life Alexander was the fifth (some sources say fourth) son of Malcolm III and his wife Margaret of Wessex, grandniece of Edward the Confessor. Alexander was named after Pope Alexander II. He was the younger brother of King Edgar, who was unmarried, and his brother's heir presumptive by 1104 (and perhaps earlier). In that year, he was the senior layman present at the examination of the remains of Saint Cuthbert at Durham prior to their re-interment. He held lands in Scotland north of the Forth and in Lothian. On the death of Edgar in 1107, Alexander succeeded to the Scottish crown but, in accordance with Edgar's instructions, their brother David was granted an appanage in southern Scotland. Edgar's will granted David the lands of the former kingdom of Strathclyde or Cumbria, and this was apparently agreed in advance by Edgar, Alexander, David and their brother-in-law Henry I of England. In 1113, perhaps at Henry's instigation, and with the support of his Anglo-Norman allies, David demanded and received, additional lands in Lothian along the Upper Tweed and Teviot. David did not receive the title of king, but of "prince of the Cumbrians", and his lands remained under Alexander's final authority. The dispute over Tweeddale and Teviotdale does not appear to have damaged relations between Alexander and David, although it was unpopular in some quarters. A Gaelic poem laments:It's bad what Malcolm's son has done,dividing us from Alexander;he causes, like each king's son before,the plunder of stable Alba. The dispute over the eastern marches does not appear to have caused lasting trouble between Alexander and Henry of England. In 1114, he joined Henry on campaign in Wales against Gruffudd ap Cynan of Gwynedd. Alexander's marriage with Henry's illegitimate daughter Sybilla of Normandy may have occurred as early as 1107, or as late as 1114. William of Malmesbury's account attacks Sybilla, but the evidence argues that Alexander and Sybilla were a devoted but childless couple and Sybilla was of noteworthy piety. Sybilla died in unrecorded circumstances at Eilean nam Ban (Kenmore on Loch Tay) in July 1122 and was buried at Dunfermline Abbey. Alexander did not remarry and Walter Bower wrote that he planned an Augustinian Priory at the Eilean nam Ban dedicated to Sybilla's memory, and he may have taken steps to have her venerated. Alexander had at least one illegitimate child, Máel Coluim mac Alaxandair, who was later involved in a revolt against David I in the 1130s. He was imprisoned at Roxburgh for many years afterwards, perhaps until his death sometime after 1157. Alexander was, like his brothers Edgar and David, a notably pious king. He was responsible for foundations at Scone and Inchcolm, the latter founded in thanks for his survival of a tempest at sea nearby. He had the two towers built which flanked the great western entrance of Dunfermline Abbey, where his mother was buried. His mother's chaplain and hagiographer Thurgot was named Bishop of Saint Andrews (or Cell Rígmonaid) in 1107, presumably by Alexander's order. The case of Thurgot's would-be successor Eadmer shows that Alexander's wishes were not always accepted by the religious community, perhaps because Eadmer had the backing of the Archbishop of Canterbury, Ralph d'Escures, rather than Thurstan of York. Alexander also patronised Saint Andrews, granting lands intended for an Augustinian Priory, which may have been the same as that intended to honour his wife. For all his religiosity, Alexander was not remembered as a man of peace. John of Fordun says of him: He manifested the terrible aspect of his character in his reprisals in the Province of Moray. Andrew of Wyntoun's Orygynale Cronykil of Scotland says that Alexander was holding court at Invergowrie when he was attacked by "men of the Isles". Walter Bower says the attackers were from Moray and Mearns. Alexander pursued them north, to "Stockford" in Ross (near Beauly) where he defeated them. This, says Wyntoun, is why he was named the "Fierce". The dating of this is uncertain, as are his enemies' identities. However, in 1116 the Annals of Ulster report: "Ladhmann son of Domnall, grandson of the king of Scotland, was killed by the men of Moray." The king referred to is Alexander's father, Malcolm III, and Domnall was Alexander's half brother. The Province or Kingdom of Moray was ruled by the family of Macbeth (Mac Bethad mac Findláich) and Lulach (Lulach mac Gille Coemgáin): not overmighty subjects, but a family who had ruled Alba within little more than a lifetime. Who the Mormaer or King was at this time is not known; it may have been Óengus of Moray or his father, whose name is not known. As for the Mearns, the only known Mormaer of Mearns, Máel Petair, had murdered Alexander's half-brother Duncan II (Donnchad mac Maíl Coluim) in 1094. Alexander died in April 1124 at his court at Stirling; his brother David, probably the acknowledged heir since the death of Sybilla, succeeded him. Fictional portrayals Alexander was depicted in a fantasy novel, Pater Nostras Canis Dirus: The Garrison Effect (2010). Alexander is depicted as troubled by his lack of direct heirs, having no child with his wife Sybilla of Normandy. He points out that his father-in-law Henry I of England is asking them for a grandson. References Sources Further reading Alexander I at the official website of the British monarchy 1070s births 1124 deaths House of Dunkeld 12th-century Scottish monarchs People from Dunfermline Burials at Dunfermline Abbey 11th-century Scottish people Gaelic monarchs in Scotland
Alexander II (Medieval Gaelic: ; Modern Gaelic: ; 24 August 1198 – 6 July 1249) was King of Scotland from 1214 until his death. He concluded the Treaty of York (1237) which defined the boundary between England and Scotland, virtually unchanged today. Early life Alexander was born at Haddington, East Lothian, the only son of the Scottish king William the Lion and Ermengarde de Beaumont. He spent time in England (John of England knighted him at Clerkenwell Priory in 1213) before succeeding to the kingdom on the death of his father on 4 December 1214, being crowned at Scone on 6 December the same year. King of Scots In 1215, the year after his accession, the clans Meic Uilleim and MacHeths, inveterate enemies of the Scottish crown, broke into revolt; but loyalist forces speedily quelled the insurrection. In the same year, Alexander joined the English barons in their struggle against King John of England, and led an army into the Kingdom of England in support of their cause. This action led to the sacking of Berwick-upon-Tweed as John's forces ravaged the north. The Scottish forces reached the south coast of England at the port of Dover where in September 1216, Alexander paid homage to the pretender Louis VIII of France for his lands in England, chosen by the barons to replace John. But since John died, the papacy and the English aristocracy changed their allegiance to his nine-year-old son, Henry III, forcing the French and the Scots armies to return home. Peace between Henry, Louis and Alexander followed on 12 September 1217 with the Treaty of Kingston. Diplomacy further strengthened the reconciliation by the marriage of Alexander to Henry's sister Joan on 18 June or 25 June 1221. In 1222 Jon Haraldsson, the last native Scandinavian to be Jarl of Orkney, was indirectly implicated in the burning of Adam of Melrose at his hall at Halkirk by local farmers when this part of Caithness was still part of the Kingdom of Norway. A contemporary chronicler, Boethius the Dane blamed Haraldsson for the bishop's death. After the jarl swore oaths to his own innocence, Alexander took the opportunity to assert his claims to the mainland part of the Orkney jarldom. He visited Caithness in person, and hanged the majority of the farmers, while mutilating the rest. His actions were applauded by Pope Honorius III, and a quarter of a century later, he was continuing to receive commendation from the Catholic Church, as in the reward of a bull from Pope Celestine IV. During the same period, Alexander subjugated the hitherto semi-independent district of Argyll (much smaller than the modern area by that name, it only comprised Craignish, Ardscotnish, Glassary, Glenary and Cowal; Lorn was a separate province, while Kintyre and Knapdale were part of Suðreyar). Royal forces crushed a revolt in Galloway in 1235 without difficulty; nor did an invasion attempted soon afterwards by its exiled leaders meet with success. Soon afterwards, a claim for homage from Henry of England drew forth from Alexander a counter-claim to the northern English counties. The two kingdoms, however, settled this dispute by a compromise in 1237. This was the Treaty of York, which defined the boundary between the two kingdoms as running between the Solway Firth (in the west) and the mouth of the River Tweed (in the east). Alexander's first wife, Joan, died in March 1238 in Essex. Alexander married his second wife, Marie de Coucy, the following year on 15 May 1239. Together they had one son, Alexander III, born in 1241. A threat of invasion by Henry in 1243 for a time interrupted the friendly relations between the two countries; but the prompt action of Alexander in anticipating his attack, and the disinclination of the English barons for war, compelled him to make peace the next year at Newcastle. Alexander now turned his attention to securing the Western Isles, which were still part of the Norwegian domain of Suðreyjar. He repeatedly attempted negotiations and purchase, but without success. Alexander set out to conquer these islands but died on the way in 1249. This dispute over the Western Isles, also known as the Hebrides, was not resolved until 1266 when Magnus VI of Norway ceded them to Scotland along with the Isle of Man. The English chronicler Matthew Paris in his Chronica Majora described Alexander as red-haired: [King John] taunted King Alexander, and because he was red-headed, sent word to him, saying, 'so shall we hunt the red fox-cub from his lairs. Death Alexander attempted to persuade Ewen, the son of Duncan, Lord of Argyll (and King of the Isles), to sever his allegiance to Haakon IV of Norway. When Ewen rejected these attempts, Alexander sailed forth to compel him, but on the way he suffered a fever at the Isle of Kerrera in the Inner Hebrides. He died there in 1249 and was buried at Melrose Abbey. The Hákonar saga Hákonarsonar records additional information, in that before attempting to invade the Isles, where Ewen held power, he was supposedly warned in a dream by St. Columba, St. Olaf and St. Magnus to desist. King Ewen of the Isles' status as Monarch had been confirmed by Haakon IV and was disputed by Alexander. The episode might be emblematic of a broader desire on the part of Alexander to bring the Kingdom of the Isles fully into the power of the Scottish Crown. In any case, when he finally decided to continue in his endeavour, despite the dream, and having been advised against it by his men, he died shortly afterwards. The incident was portrayed in the saga as divine punishment. His body was then transported back to the mainland. He was succeeded by his son, the seven-year-old Alexander III of Scotland. Family Alexander II had two wives: 1. Joan of England (22 July 12104 March 1238), who was the eldest legitimate daughter and third child of John of England and Isabella of Angoulême. She and Alexander II married on 21 June 1221, at York Minster. Alexander was 23; Joan was 11. They had no children. Joan died in Essex in 1238, and was buried at Tarant Crawford Abbey in Dorset. 2. Marie de Coucy, who became mother of Alexander III of Scotland. He also had an illegitimate daughter, Marjorie, who married Alan Durward. Fictional portrayals Alexander II has been depicted in historical novels: Sword of State (1999) by Nigel Tranter. The novel depicts the friendship between Alexander II and Patrick II, Earl of Dunbar. "Their friendship withstands treachery, danger and rivalry". Child of the Phoenix (1992) by Barbara Erskine. The Decameron by Giovanni Boccaccio. Day the Second: Third Story. References Sources Further reading Alexander II at the official website of the British monarchy Worcester Annals Rotuli Litterarum Patencium Scottish Roman Catholics House of Dunkeld 1198 births 1249 deaths People from Haddington, East Lothian 13th-century Scottish monarchs 12th-century Scottish people Burials at Melrose Abbey Gaelic monarchs in Scotland
Alexander I (; 14 August 187611 June 1903) reigned as the king of Serbia from 1889 to 1903 when he and his wife, Draga Mašin, were assassinated by a group of Royal Serbian Army officers, led by Captain Dragutin Dimitrijević. Accession Alexander was born on 14 August 1876 to King Milan and Queen Natalie of Serbia. He belonged to the Obrenović dynasty. In 1889, King Milan unexpectedly abdicated and withdrew to private life, proclaiming Alexander king of Serbia. Since the king was only thirteen, three regents were appointed, head among them Jovan Ristich. His mother also became his regent. Alexander ordered the arrest of the regents on April 13, 1893, proclaiming himself of age and dissolving national assembly. On May 21, he abolished his father's liberal constitution of 1889 and restored the previous one. In 1894, the young King brought his father, Milan, back to Serbia and, in 1898, appointed him commander-in-chief of the army. During that time, Milan was regarded as the de facto ruler of the country. In 1898 penalties were brought down upon the Radical and the Russophil parties, which the court sought to tie to an attempted assassination of the former King Milan. Alexander's attitude during the Greco-Turkish War (1897) was one of strict neutrality. Marriage In the summer of 1900, King Alexander suddenly announced his engagement to Draga Mašin, a disreputable widow of an obscure engineer. Alexander had met Draga in 1897 when she was serving as a maid of honor to his mother. Draga was nine years older than the king, unpopular with Belgrade society, well known for her allegedly numerous sexual liaisons, and widely believed to be infertile. Since Alexander was an only child, it was imperative to secure the succession by producing an heir. So intense was the opposition to Mašin among the political classes that the king found it impossible for a time to recruit suitable candidates for senior posts. Before making the announcement of his engagement, Alexander did not consult with his father, who had been on vacation in Karlsbad and making arrangements to secure the hand of German Princess Alexandra Karoline zu Schaumburg-Lippe, sister of the Queen of Württemberg, for his son, or his Prime Minister Dr. Vladan Đorđević, who was visiting the Universal Exhibition in Paris at the time of the announcement. Both immediately resigned, and Alexander had difficulty in forming a new cabinet. Alexander's mother also opposed the marriage and was subsequently banished from the kingdom. Opposition to the union seemed to subside somewhat for a time upon the publication of congratulations of Nicholas II of Russia to the king on his engagement and of his agreement to act as the principal witness at the wedding. The marriage duly took place in August 1900. Even so, the unpopularity of the union weakened the king's position in the eyes of the army and the country at large. Politics and the constitution King Alexander tried to reconcile political parties by unveiling a liberal constitution of his own initiative in 1901, introducing for the first time in the constitutional history of Serbia the system of two chambers (skupština and senate). This reconciled the political parties, but did not placate the army which, already dissatisfied with the king's marriage, became still more so at the rumors that one of the two unpopular brothers of Queen Draga, Lieutenant Nikodije, was to be proclaimed heir presumptive to the throne. Alexander's good relations and the country's growing dependence on Austria-Hungary were detested by the Serbian public. Two million Serbs lived in Austria-Hungary, with another million in the Ottoman Empire, although many migrated to Serbia. Meanwhile, the independence of the senate and of the council of state caused increasing irritation to King Alexander. In March 1903, the king suspended the constitution for half an hour, time enough to publish decrees dismissing and replacing the old senators and councillors of state. This arbitrary act increased dissatisfaction in the country. Attempting to appease the opposition, King Alexander granted an amnesty to the persecuted Radicals, and in 1901 issued a moderately liberal constitution. A Council of State and a second chamber to parliament were instituted. In 1902 Alexander's rival Peter Кarađorđević was proclaimed king by followers at Šabac, and Alexander responded by organizing a military cabinet and suspending the constitution. Radicals began to plot the King's assassination. Assassination The general impression was that, as much as the senate was packed with men devoted to the royal couple and the government obtained a large majority at the general elections, King Alexander would not hesitate any longer to proclaim Queen Draga's brother as the heir presumptive to the throne. In spite of this, it had been agreed with the Serbian government that Prince Mirko of Montenegro, who was married to Natalija Konstantinović, the granddaughter of Princess Anka Obrenović, an aunt of King Milan, would be proclaimed heir presumptive in the event that the marriage of King Alexander and Queen Draga was childless. Apparently to prevent Queen Draga's brother being named heir presumptive, but in reality, to replace Alexander Obrenović with Peter Karađorđević, a conspiracy was organized by a group of Army officers headed by Captain Dragutin Dimitrijević, also known as "Apis", and Novak Perišić, a young Serbian Orthodox militant who was in the pay of the Russian Empire, as well as the leader of the Black Hand secret society which would assassinate Archduke Franz Ferdinand in 1914. Several politicians were also members of the conspiracy and allegedly included former Prime Minister Nikola Pašić. The royal couple's palace was invaded and they hid in a wardrobe in the queen's bedroom. (There is another possibility, used in a Serbian TV history series The End of the Obrenović Dynasty in which the royal couple was in a secret safe room hidden behind the mirror in a common bedroom. The room contained an entrance to a secret passage leading out of the palace, but the entrance was inaccessible due to the placement of the queen's wardrobe over it after the wedding.) The conspirators searched the palace and eventually discovered the royal couple and murdered them in the early morning of June 11, 1903. They were shot and their bodies mutilated and disembowelled, after which, according to eyewitness accounts, they were thrown from a second-floor window of the palace onto piles of garden manure. The king was only 26 years old. King Alexander and Queen Draga were buried in the crypt of St. Mark's Church, Belgrade. Honours : Founder of the Order of St. Prince Lazar, 28 June 1889 Founder of the Order of Miloš the Great, 1898 : Grand Cross of the Order of St. Stephen, 1891 : Knight of the House Order of Fidelity, 1894 Knight of the Order of Berthold the First, 1894 : Knight of the Order of the Annunciation, 25 November 1896 : Grand Cross of the Sash of the Three Orders, 5 August 1893 : Knight of the Order of St. Andrew : Grand Cross of the Order of Charles III, with Collar, 24 September 1897 Notes References 1876 births 1903 deaths Kings of Serbia People from Belgrade 19th-century Serbian monarchs 20th-century Serbian monarchs Obrenović dynasty Murdered Serbian monarchs Assassinated Serbian people Executed Serbian people Eastern Orthodox Christians from Serbia Eastern Orthodox monarchs Male murder victims Modern child monarchs Recipients of the Order of St. Sava Grand Crosses of the Order of St. Sava Grand Crosses of the Order of Saint Stephen of Hungary 3 3 3 People murdered in Serbia Burials at St. Mark's Church, Belgrade 20th-century murdered monarchs 1903 murders in Europe Assassinated heads of state in Europe
Alexander of Greece (1893–1920) was king of Greece from 1917 until his death. Alexander of Greece may also refer to: Alexander of Greece (rhetorician) () Alexander the Great (356–323 BC), ancient Greek king and general See also Alexander § People with the given name Alexander
Alexander I may refer to: Alexander I of Macedon, king of Macedon from 495–454 BC Alexander I of Epirus (370–331 BC), king of Epirus Pope Alexander I (died 115), early bishop of Rome Pope Alexander I of Alexandria (died 320s), patriarch of Alexandria Alexander I of Scotland ( – 1124), king of Scotland Aleksandr Mikhailovich of Tver (1301–1339), prince of Tver as Alexander I Alexander I of Georgia (1386–?), king of Georgia Alexander I of Moldavia (died 1432), prince of Moldavia Alexander I of Kakheti (1445–1511), king of Kakheti Alexander Jagiellon (1461–1506), king of Poland Alexander I of Russia (1777–1825), emperor of Russia Alexander of Battenberg (1857–1893), prince of Bulgaria Alexander I of Serbia (1876–1903), king of Serbia Alexander I of Yugoslavia (1888–1934), king of Yugoslavia Alexander of Greece (1893–1920), king of Greece See also King Alexander (disambiguation)
Alexander II may refer to: Alexander II of Macedon, king of Macedon from 370 to 368 BC Alexander II of Epirus (died 260 BC), king of Epirus in 272 BC Alexander II Zabinas, king of the Greek Seleucid kingdom in 128–123 BC Alexander (912–913), Eastern Roman emperor Pope Alexander II of Alexandria, ruled in 702–729 Patriarch Alexander II of Alexandria Pope Alexander II (died 1073), pope from 1061 to 1073 Alexander II of Scotland (1198–1249), king of Scots Alexander II of Imereti (died 1510, 1483–1510), king of Georgia and of Imereti Alexander II of Kakheti (1527–1605), king of Kakheti Alexander II Mircea Alexander II of Russia (1818–1881), emperor of Russia Alexander II of Yugoslavia (born 1945), crown prince of Serbia See also King Alexander (disambiguation)
Alexander III may refer to: Alexander III of Macedon (356 BC – 323 BC), also known as Alexander the Great Alexander (Byzantine emperor) (870–913), Byzantine emperor Pope Alexander III (1100s–1181) , grand duke of Vladimir (1328–1331), prince of Suzdal Alexander III of Scotland (1241–1286), king of Scotland Alexander III of Imereti (1609–1660), king of Imereti Alexander III of Russia (1845–1894), emperor of Russia , an arch bridge that spans the Seine in Paris Russian battleship , Russian warship Alexander III of Antioch (1869–1958), Greek Orthodox patriarch of Antioch See also King Alexander (disambiguation)
Alexander Aetolus (, Ἀléxandros ὁ Aἰtōlós) was a Greek poet and grammarian, the only known representative of Aetolian poetry. Life Alexander was the son of Satyrus (Σάτυρος) and Stratocleia (Στρατόκλεια), and was a native of Pleuron in Aetolia, although he spent the greater part of his life at Alexandria, where he was reckoned one of the seven tragic poets who constituted the Tragic Pleiad. Alexander flourished about 280 BC, in the reign of Ptolemy II Philadelphus. He had an office in the Library of Alexandria, and was commissioned by Ptolemy to make a collection of all the tragedies and satyric dramas that were extant. He spent some time, together with Antagoras and Aratus, at the court of Antigonus II Gonatas. Notwithstanding the distinction Alexander enjoyed as a tragic poet, he appears to have had greater merit as a writer of epic poems, elegies, epigrams, and cynaedi. Among his epic poems, we possess the titles and some fragments of three pieces: the Fisherman, Kirka or Krika, which, however, is designated by Athenaeus as doubtful, and Helena, Of his elegies, some beautiful fragments are still extant.<ref>Scholiast and Eustathius, ad Il. iii. 314</ref> His Cynaedi, or Ionic poems'' (), are mentioned by Strabo and Athenaeus. Some anapaestic verses in praise of Euripides are preserved in Gellius. References Sources Further reading J U Powell (ed), Collectanea Alexandrina: reliquiae minores poetarum graecorum aetatis ptolemaicae, 323–146 A.C. (1972) Enrico Magnelli (ed), Alexandri Aetoli Testimonia et Fragmenta. Studi e Testi 15. (1999) Ancient Aetolians Ancient Greek dramatists and playwrights Ancient Greek poets Tragic poets Ancient Greek epic poets Ancient Greek epigrammatists Ancient Greek elegiac poets 3rd-century BC Greek people 3rd-century BC poets Ptolemaic court Year of birth unknown Year of death unknown Hellenistic poets
Alexander IV may refer to: Pope Alexander IV (1199 or –1261) Alexander IV of Macedon (323 BC–309 BC), son of Alexander the Great Alexander IV of Imereti (died 1695), of the Bagrationi Dynasty, king of Imereti (western Georgia)
The Alexandrists were a school of Renaissance philosophers who, in the great controversy on the subject of personal immortality, adopted the explanation of the De Anima given by Alexander of Aphrodisias. According to the orthodox Thomism of the Catholic Church, Aristotle rightly regarded reason as a facility of the individual soul. Against this, the Averroists, led by Agostino Nifo, introduced the modifying theory that universal reason in a sense individualizes itself in each soul and then absorbs the active reason into itself again. These two theories respectively evolved the doctrine of individual and universal immortality, or the absorption of the individual into the eternal One. The Alexandrists, led by Pietro Pomponazzi, assailed these beliefs and denied that either was rightly attributed to Aristotle. They held that Aristotle considered the soul as a material and therefore a mortal entity which operates during life only under the authority of universal reason. Hence the Alexandrists denied that Aristotle viewed the soul as immortal, because in their view, since they believed that Aristotle viewed the soul as organically connected with the body, the dissolution of the latter involves the extinction of the former. References Attribution: Christian philosophers
Alexis (; c. 375 – c. 275 BC) was a Greek comic poet of the Middle Comedy period. He was born at Thurii (in present-day Calabria, Italy) in Magna Graecia and taken early to Athens, where he became a citizen, being enrolled in the deme Oion () and the tribe Leontides. It is thought he lived to the age of 106 and died on the stage while being crowned. According to the Suda, a 10th-century encyclopedia, Alexis was the paternal uncle of the dramatist Menander and wrote 245 comedies, of which only fragments now survive, including some 130 preserved titles. Life He appears to have been rather addicted to the pleasures of the table, according to Athenaeus. He had a son named Stephanus (Στέφανος) who was also a comic poet. He won his first Lenaean victory in the 350s BC, most likely, where he was sixth after Eubulus, and fourth after Antiphanes. While being a Middle Comic poet, Alexis was contemporary with several leading figures of New Comedy, such as Philippides, Philemon, Diphilus, and even Menander. There is also some evidence that, during his old age, he wrote plays in the style of New Comedy. Plutarch says that he lived to the age of 106 and 5 months, and that he died on the stage while being crowned victor. He was certainly alive after 345 BC, for Aeschines mentions him as alive in that year. He was also living at least as late as 288 BC, from which his birth date is calculated. According to the Suda he wrote 245 comedies, of which only fragments including some 130 titles survive. His plays include Meropis, Ankylion, Olympiodoros, Parasitos (exhibited in 360 BC, in which he ridiculed Plato), Agonis (in which he ridiculed Misgolas), and the Adelphoi and the Stratiotes, in which he satirized Demosthenes, and acted shortly after 343 BC. Also Hippos (316 BC) (in which he referred to the decree of Sophocles against the philosophers), Pyraunos (312 BC), Pharmakopole (306 BC), Hypobolimaios (306 BC), and Ankylion. Because he wrote a lot of plays, the same passages often appear in more than 3 plays. It was said that he also borrowed from Eubulus and many other playwrights in some of his plays. According to Carytius of Pergamum, Alexis was the first to use the part of the parasite. Alexis was known in Roman times; Aulus Gellius noted that Alexis' poetry was used by Roman comedians, including Turpilius and possibly Plautus. Surviving titles and fragments Only fragments have survived from any of Alexis's plays – about 340 in all, totaling about 1,000 lines. They attest to the author's wit and refinement, which Athenaeus praises. The surviving fragments also show that Alexis invented a great many words, mostly compound words, that he used normal words in an unusual way, and made strange and unusual forms of common words. The main sources of the fragments of Alexis are Stobaeus and Athenaeus. The following 139 titles of Alexis's plays have been preserved: Achaiis ("The Achaean Woman") Adelphoi ("The Brothers") Agonis, or Hippiskos Aichmalotos ("The Prisoner of War") Aiopoloi ("Goat-Herders") Aisopos ("Aesop") Aleiptria ("Female Physical Trainer") Ampelourgos ("The Vine-Dresser") Amphotis Ankylion Anteia Apeglaukomenos Apobates ("The Trick Rider") Apokoptomenos Archilochos Asklepiokleides Asotodidaskalos ("Teacher of Debauchery") Atalante Atthis Bomos ("The Altar") Bostrychos ("Lock of Hair") Brettia ("The Bruttian Woman") Choregis Daktylios ("The Ring") Demetrios, or Philetairus Diapleousai ("Women Sailing Across The Sea") Didymoi ("The Twins") Dis Penthon ("Twice Grieving") Dorkis, or Poppyzousa ("Lip-Smacking Woman") Dropides Eis To Phrear ("Into The Well") Eisoikizomenos ("The Banished Man") Ekkeryttomenos Ekpomatopoios ("The Cup-Maker") Epidaurios ("The Man From Epidaurus") Epikleros ("The Heiress") Epistole ("The Letter") Epitropos ("The Guardian", or "Protector") Eretrikos ("Man From Eretria") Erithoi ("Weavers"), or Pannychis ("All-Night Festival") Galateia ("Galatea") Graphe ("The Document") Gynaikokratia ("Government By Women") Helene ("Helen") Helenes Arpage ("Helen's Capture") Helenes Mnesteres ("Helen's Suitors") Hellenis ("The Greek Woman") Hepta Epi Thebais ("Seven Against Thebes") Hesione ("Hesione") Hippeis ("Knights") Homoia Hypnos ("Sleep") Hypobolimaios ("The Changeling") Iasis ("The Cure, or Remedy") Isostasion Kalasiris Karchedonios ("The Man From Carthage") Katapseudomenos ("The False Accuser") Kaunioi ("The Men From Kaunos") Keryttomenos ("The Proclaimed Man") Kitharodos ("The Citharode") Kleobouline ("Cleobuline") Knidia ("The Woman From Cnidus") Koniates ("Plasterer") Kouris ("The Lady Hairdresser") Krateuas, or Pharmakopoles ("Pharmacist") Kybernetes ("The Pilot or Helmsman") Kybeutai ("The Dice-Players") Kyknos ("The Swan") Kyprios ("The Man from Cyprus") Lampas ("The Torch") Lebes ("The Cauldron") Leukadia ("Woman From Leucas"), or Drapetai ("Female Runaways") Leuke ("Leprosy," or possibly "The White Poplar") Lemnia ("The Woman From Lemnos") Linos ("Linus") Lokroi ("The Locrians") Lykiskos Mandragorizomene ("Mandrake-Drugged Woman") Manteis ("Diviners," or "Seers") Meropis ("Meropis") Midon ("Midon") Milesia ("Milesian Woman") Milkon ("Milcon") Minos ("Minos") Mylothros ("The Miller") Odysseus Aponizomenos ("Odysseus Washing Himself") Odysseus Hyphainon ("Odysseus Weaving Cloth") Olympiodoros Olynthia ("The Woman From Olynthos") Opora ("Autumn") Orchestris ("The Dancing-Girl") Orestes ("Orestes") Pallake ("The Concubine") Pamphile Pankratiastes Parasitos ("The Parasite") Pezonike Phaidon, or Phaidrias Phaidros ("Phaedrus") Philathenaios ("Lover of the Athenian People") Philiskos Philokalos, or Nymphai ("Nymphs") Philotragodos ("Lover of Tragedies") Philousa ("The Loving Woman") Phryx ("The Phrygian") Phygas ("The Fugitive") Poietai ("Poets") Poietria ("The Poetess") Polykleia ("Polyclea") Ponera ("The Wicked Woman") Pontikos ("The Man From Pontus") Proskedannymenos Protochoros ("First Chorus") Pseudomenos ("The Lying Man") Pylaia Pyraunos Pythagorizousa ("Female Disciple of Pythagoras") Rhodion, or Poppyzousa ("Lip-Smacking Woman") Sikyonios ("The Man From Sicyon") Skeiron Sorakoi Spondophoros ("The Libation-Bearer") Stratiotes ("The Soldier") Synapothneskontes ("Men Dying Together") Syntrechontes Syntrophoi Syrakosios ("Man From Syracuse") Tarantinoi ("Men From Tarentum") Thebaioi ("Men From Thebes") Theophoretos ("Possessed by a God") Thesprotoi ("Men From Thesprotia") Theteuontes ("Serfs") Thrason ("Thrason") Titthe ("The Wet-Nurse") Tokistes ("Money-Lender"), or Katapseudomenos ("The False Accuser") Traumatias ("The Wounded Man") Trophonios ("Trophonius") Tyndareos ("Tyndareus") Editions of fragments Augustus Meineke. Poetarum Graecorum comicorum fragmenta, (1855). Theodor Kock. Comicorum Atticorum fragmenta, i. (1880). Colin Austin and Rudolf Kassel. Poetae Comici Graeci. vol. 2. Notes References Arnott, W. Geoffrey. Alexis: The Fragments. A Commentary. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1996. External links 3rd-century BC Greek writers Ancient Greek centenarians Ancient Greek dramatists and playwrights Poets of Magna Graecia Middle Comic poets Men centenarians Metics in Classical Athens People from the Province of Cosenza Italiotes 370s BC births 270s BC deaths
Alexios II Komnenos (; 14 September 1169September 1183), Latinized Alexius II Comnenus, was Byzantine emperor from 1180 to 1183. He ascended to the throne as a minor. For the duration of his short reign, the imperial power was de facto held by regents. Biography Early years Born in the purple at Constantinople, Alexios was the long-awaited son of Emperor Manuel I Komnenos (who gave him a name that began with the letter alpha as a fulfillment of the AIMA prophecy) and Maria of Antioch. In 1171 he was crowned co-emperor, and in 1175 he accompanied his father at Dorylaion in Asia Minor in order to have the city rebuilt. On 2 March 1180, at the age of eleven, he was married to Agnes of France aged 10, daughter of King Louis VII of France. She was thereafter known as Anna, and after Alexios' murder three years later, Anna would be remarried to the person responsible, Andronikos, then aged 65. Regency of Maria and Alexios When Manuel I died in September 1180, Alexios II succeeded him as emperor. At this time, however, he was an uneducated boy with only amusement in mind. The imperial regency was then undertaken by the dowager empress and the prōtosebastos Alexios Komnenos (a namesake cousin of Alexios II), who was popularly believed to be her lover. The regents depleted the imperial treasury by granting privileges to Italian merchants and to the Byzantine aristocracy. When Béla III of Hungary and Kilij Arslan II of Rum began raiding within the Byzantine western and eastern borders respectively, the regents were forced to ask for help to the pope and to Saladin. Furthermore, a party supporting Alexios II's right to reign, led by his half-sister Maria Komnene and her husband the caesar John, stirred up riots in the streets of the capital. The regents managed to defeat the party on April 1182, but Andronikos Komnenos, a first cousin of Manuel I, took advantage of the disorder to aim at the crown. He entered Constantinople, received with almost divine honours, and overthrew the government. His arrival was celebrated by a massacre of the Latins in Constantinople, especially the Venetian merchants, which he made no attempt to stop. Regency of Andronikos and death On 16 May 1182 Andronikos, posing as Alexios' protector, officially restored him on the throne. As for 1180, the young emperor was uninterested in ruling matters, and Andronikos effectively acted as the power behind the throne, not allowing Alexios any voice in public affairs. One after another, Andronikos suppressed most of Alexios' defenders and supporters: his half-sister Maria Komnene, the caesar John, his loyal generals Andronikos Doukas Angelos, Andronikos Kontostephanos and John Komnenos Vatatzes, while Empress Dowager Maria was put in prison. In 1183, Alexios was compelled to condemn his own mother to death. In September 1183, Andronikos was formally proclaimed emperor before the crowd on the terrace of the Church of Christ of the Chalkè. Probably by the end of the same month, Andronikos ordered Alexios' assassination; the young emperor was secretly strangled with a bow-string and his body thrown in the Bósporos. In the years following Alexios' mysterious disappearance, many young men resembling him tried to claim the throne. In the end, none of those pseudo-Alexioi managed to become emperor. Portrayal in fiction Alexios is a character in the historical novel Agnes of France (1980) by Greek writer Kostas Kyriazis. The novel describes the events of the reigns of Manuel I, Alexios II, and Andronikos I through the eyes of Agnes. Notes References Further reading Harris, Jonathan, Byzantium and the Crusades, Bloomsbury, 2nd ed., 2014. , Vols. A1, A2 & B 1169 births 1183 deaths Komnenos dynasty Monarchs who died as children Medieval child monarchs 12th-century Byzantine emperors People executed by ligature strangulation Eastern Orthodox monarchs Assassinated Byzantine emperors 12th-century murdered monarchs Manuel I Komnenos Porphyrogennetoi Sons of Byzantine emperors
“Hymn to Proserpine” is a poem by Algernon Charles Swinburne, published in Poems and Ballads in 1866. The poem is addressed to the goddess Proserpina, the Roman equivalent of Persephone, but laments the rise of Christianity for displacing the pagan goddess and her pantheon. The epigraph at the beginning of the poem is the phrase Vicisti, Galilaee, Latin for "You have conquered, O Galilean", the supposed dying words of the Emperor Julian. He had tried to reverse the official endorsement of Christianity by the Roman Empire. The poem is cast in the form of a lament by a person professing the paganism of classical antiquity and lamenting its passing, and expresses regret at the rise of Christianity. The line "Time and the Gods are at strife" inspired the title of Lord Dunsany's Time and the Gods. The poem is quoted by Sue Bridehead in Thomas Hardy's 1895 novel, Jude the Obscure and also by Edward Ashburnham in Ford Madox Ford's The Good Soldier. See also “The Garden of Proserpine”, another poem by A. C. Swinburne Poems and Ballads References External links Full text at the University of Toronto Library British poems 1866 poems Victorian poetry Proserpina Poetry by Algernon Charles Swinburne
"The Triumph of Time" is a poem by Algernon Charles Swinburne, published in Poems and Ballads in 1866. It is in adapted ottava rima and is full of elaborate use of literary devices, particularly alliteration. The theme, which purports to be autobiographical, is that of rejected love. The speaker deplores the ruin of his life, and in tones at times reminiscent of Hamlet, craves oblivion, for which the sea serves as a constant metaphor. See also Poems and Ballads Notes External links Complete text of the poem Victorian Web article on the poem British poems 1866 poems Poetry by Algernon Charles Swinburne
Alger of Liège (1055–1131), known also as Alger of Cluny and Algerus Magister, was a learned clergyman and canonist from Liège, author of several notable works. Alger was first deacon and scholaster of church of St Bartholomew in his native Liège and was then appointed () as a canon in St. Lambert's Cathedral. Moreover, he acted as the personal secretary of bishop Otbert from 1103. He declined offers from German bishops and finally retired to the monastery of Cluny after 1121, where he died at a high age, leaving behind a solid reputation for piety and intelligence. He played a leading role in the trial of Rupert of Deutz in 1116. His History of the Church of Liège, and many of his other works, are lost. The most important remaining are: De Misericordia et Justitia (On Mercy and Justice), a collection of biblical extracts and sayings of Church Fathers with commentary (an important work for the history of church law and discipline), which is to be found in the Anecdota of Martène, vol. v. De Sacramentis Corporis et Sanguinis Domini; a treatise, in three books, against the Berengarian heresy, highly commended by Peter of Cluny and Erasmus. In this book, he also took on Rupert of Deutz' views on the Eucharist and predestination. De Gratia et Libero Arbitrio; given in Bernard Pez's Anecdota, vol. iv. De Sacrificio Missae; given in the Collectio Scriptor. Vet. of Angelo Mai, vol. ix. p. 371. De dignitate ecclesie Leodiensis, which established the reciprocal obligations of the primary and secondary churches; inserted in the Liber officiorum ecclesie Leodiensis (1323). A biography was written by Nicholas of Liège: De Algero veterum testimonia. References 12th-century Roman Catholic priests 1055 births 1131 deaths 11th-century Roman Catholic priests Clergy from the Prince-Bishopric of Liège Clergy from Liège
Alessandro di Cristofano di Lorenzo del Bronzino Allori (Florence, 31 May 153522 September 1607) was an Italian painter of the late Mannerist Florentine school. Biography In 1540, after the death of his father, Allori was brought up and trained in art by a close friend, often referred to as his 'uncle', the mannerist painter Agnolo Bronzino, whose name he sometimes assumed in his pictures. Allori supplemented this training with a study trip to Rome, between 1554 and 1560, and with anatomical research which included the dissection of human corpses, provided by the Hospital of Santa Maria Nuova. In the prime of his career, Allori headed one of the "two most important workshops in Florence in the second half of the 16th century" (the other being headed by Santi di Tito). He served as First Consul of the Accademia del Disegno in 1573, and was made head of the Arazzeria Medicea, Florence's state-owned tapestry workshop, in 1581. Allori also worked, under the guidance of Giorgio Vasari, among the team of artists who decorated the Studiolo of Francesco I. He contributed two painted panels, depicting a Banquet of Cleopatra and a landscape with figures diving for pearls. S. J. Freedberg derides Allori as derivative, claiming he illustrates "the ideal of Maniera by which art (and style) are generated out of pre-existing art." The cold and polished appearance of his painted figures makes them resemble statues as much as living beings. The art historian Simona Lecchini Giovannoni is more positive, remarking that Allori lends life and immediacy to his paintings through his minute and realistic depictions of vegetal motifs (especially flowers), household articles, and textiles of all kinds; the "grandiose, introverted figures" are thus enabled to "approach the spectator, not with dialogue and sentiment, but through the tangible evidence of objects and details". Among his collaborators was Giovanni Maria Butteri and his main pupil was Giovanni Bizzelli. Cristofano dell'Altissimo, Cesare Dandini, Aurelio Lomi, John Mosnier, Alessandro Pieroni, Giovanni Battista Vanni, and Monanni also were his pupils. He was the father of the painter Cristofano Allori (1577–1621). In some ways, Allori is the last of the line of prominent Florentine painters, of generally undiluted Tuscan artistic heritage: Andrea del Sarto worked with Fra Bartolomeo (as well as Leonardo da Vinci), Pontormo briefly worked under Andrea, and trained Bronzino, who trained Allori. Subsequent generations in the city would be strongly influenced by the tide of Baroque styles pre-eminent in other parts of Italy. Main works Portrait of a Young Man (1561; Ashmolean Museum, Oxford) Christ and the Samaritan Woman (Altarpiece, 1575, Santa Maria Novella, now Prato) Road to Calvary (1604, Rome) Dead Christ and Angels, (Museum Fine Arts, Budapest) Portrait of Piero de Médici, (São Paulo Art Museum, São Paulo) Pearl Fishing (1570–72, Studiolo of Francesco I, Palazzo Vecchio, Florence) Susanna and the Elders (202 × 117 cm, Musée Magnin, Dijon) Allegory of Human Life The Miracle of St. Peter Walking on Water Venus and Cupid, (Musée Fabre, Montpellier) Additions to Andrea del Sarto's Tribute to Caesar (1582; Villa di Poggio a Caiano) In 2006 the BBC foreign correspondent Sir Charles Wheeler returned an original Alessandro Allori painting to the Gemäldegalerie, Berlin. He had been given it in Germany in 1952, but only recently realized its origin and that it must have been looted in the wake of World War II. The work is possibly a portrait of Eleonora (Dianora) di Toledo de' Medici, niece of Eleonora di Toledo, and measures 12 cm x 16 cm. Gallery References Alessandro Allori in the "History of Art" Painting in Italy 1500-1600, Freedberg, S.J. (Penguin History of Art, 2nd Edition, 1983). External links Alessandro Allori Paintings Gallery (Public Domain Paintings - www.art.onilm.com) 1535 births 1607 deaths 16th-century Italian painters Italian male painters 17th-century Italian painters Painters from Florence Italian Mannerist painters Italian portrait painters
Alypius of Antioch was a geographer and a vicarius of Roman Britain, probably in the late 350s AD. He replaced Flavius Martinus after that vicarius' suicide. His rule is recorded is Ammianus XXIII 1, 3. Life He came from Antioch and served under Constantius II and was probably appointed to ensure that nobody with western associations was serving in Britain during a time of mistrust, rebellion and suppression symbolised by the brutal acts of the imperial notary Paulus Catena. He may have had to deal with the insurrection of the usurper named Carausius II. Alypius was afterwards commissioned to rebuild the Temple in Jerusalem as part of Julian's systematic attempt to reverse the Christianization of the Roman Empire by restoring pagan and, in this case, Jewish practices. Among the letters of Julian are two (29 and 30) addressed to Alypius; one inviting him to Rome, the other thanking him for a geographical treatise, which no longer exists. References Sources Todd, M., Roman Britain, Fontana, London 1985 Salway, P., Roman Britain, Oxford, 1986 Jews and Judaism in the Roman Empire Ancient Romans in Britain People from Antioch Ancient Roman geographers Roman governors of Britain 4th-century Romans Late-Roman-era pagans 4th-century geographers
Amalasuintha (495 – 30 April 535) was a ruler of the Ostrogothic Kingdom from 526 to 535. Initially serving as regent for her son Athalaric, she became queen after his premature death. Highly educated, Amalasuintha was praised by both Cassiodorus and Procopius for her wisdom and her ability to speak three languages (Greek, Gothic, and Latin). Her status as an independent female monarch, and obvious affinity for Roman culture, caused discontent among the Gothic nobles in her court, and she was deposed and killed after six months of sole rule. Family Amalasuintha was likely born in Ravenna in 495, the only child of Theodoric and his wife Audofleda, the sister of Clovis, King of the Franks. The union of Amalasuintha’s parents were of a political purpose, as many royal marriages were at the time. Theodoric married Audofleda about the year 493, after he had defeated the various Gothic kingdoms and sought an alliance with the Franks. Amalasuintha was born into the Amali dynasty on her father’s side, which dynasty comprised Goths of Germanic descent. Like her father, Amalasuintha was married out of political reasons to Eutharic, an Amali prince, to ensure a legitimate heir to the throne. They had two children together, Athalaric and Matasuntha. Eutharic died in 522, causing Theodoric some alarm, as his kingdom lacked an adult male heir to inherit the throne. As Amalasuintha's son Athalaric was only 10 years old at the time of Theodoric's death, Amalasuintha took control of the kingdom alongside her son as regent and, although accounts by Cassiodorus and Procopius refer to Athalaric as King, she effectively ruled on his behalf. Rule Regent According to Procopius, the Goth aristocracy wanted Athalaric to be raised in the Gothic manner, but Amalasuintha wanted him to resemble the Roman princes. Amalasuintha had close ties to the Byzantine emperor Justinian I, which would have made her adherence to Roman learning and customs especially objectionable to her fellow Goths. The regency lasted until 534, when Athalaric died from what was most likely the combination of excessive drinking (a part of Gothic culture) and a disease, probably diabetes. In order to secure the power in the Amali name, Amalasuintha created the consortium regni that allowed her to continue to rule as queen while still presenting a public face that honored conservative Gothic tradition. She then appointed her older cousin Theodahad to rule as co-regent, in which Amalasuintha would play the male character and Theodahad would play the woman, as male and female monarchs sharing powers. Masculinity is the main characteristic attributed to Amalasuintha by Procopius and Cassiodorus, because she had a strong determination and temperament. Her tremendous influence in her position as regent can be seen in a diptych of Rufius Gennadius Probus Orestes in which she appears alongside her son, Athalaric, in 530. Deeply imbued with the old Roman culture, she gave to her son's education a more refined and literary turn than suited her Goth subjects. Conscious of her unpopularity, she banished – and afterwards put to death – three Gothic nobles whom she suspected of conspiring against her rule. At the same time, she opened negotiations with Justinian, with the view of removing herself and the Gothic treasure to Constantinople. Queen regnant After Athalaric's death, Amalasuintha became queen and ruled alone for a short while before making her cousin Theodahad co-ruler with the intent of strengthening her position. Theodahad was a prominent leader of the Gothic military aristocracy that opposed her pro-Roman stances, and Amalasuintha believed this duumvirate might make supporters from her harshest critics. Instead Theodahad fostered the disaffection of the Goths, and either by his orders or with his permission, Amalasuintha was imprisoned on the island of Martana in Lake Bolsena, where on April 30 of 534/535 she was murdered in her bath. Death The death of Amalasuintha gave Justinian I a reason to go to war with the Ostrogoths and attempt to take Italy. According to the Eastern Roman historian Procopius, Amalasuintha was thinking about handing over Italy to Justinian around the time of her death. Shortly after Amalasuintha's murder, Theodahad was replaced by Witigis, Amalasuintha's son-in-law. With the people's support, Witigis had Theodahad put to death. Sources The letters of Cassiodorus, chief minister and literary adviser of Amalasuintha, and the histories of Procopius and Jordanes, give us our chief information as to the character of Amalasuintha. Cassiodorus was a part of a greater pro-Roman party that desired to Romanize the traditional Ostrogothic kingship, further evidence of the pro-Roman circle that Amalasuintha surrounded herself with. Legacy The life of Amalasuintha was made the subject of a tragedy, the first play written by the young Carlo Goldoni and presented at Milan in 1733. Romanian poet George Coșbuc wrote a poem entitled Regina Ostrogotilor (The Queen of the Ostrogoths) in which Amalasuintha (as Amalasunda) speaks to Theodahad (mentioned as Teodat in the poem) shortly before he kills her. Asteroid 650 Amalasuntha is named in her honour. Amalasuintha is portrayed by Honor Blackman in the 1968 film Kampf um Rom. References Further reading Craddock, Jonathan Paul. Amalasuintha: Ostrogothic Successor, A.D. 526–535. PhD diss. California State University, Long Beach, 1996. Vitiello, Massimiliano. Amalasuintha: The Transformation of Queenship in the Post-Roman World. University of Pennsylvania Press, 2018. Year of birth unknown 535 deaths 6th-century women monarchs Ostrogothic queens consort Ostrogothic kings Amali dynasty 6th-century monarchs in Europe 6th-century murdered monarchs 6th-century Ostrogothic people 6th-century Italian women 6th-century Christians 6th-century scholars Women scholars and academics Scholars of Latin literature Scholars of Greek language Queens regnant in Europe 6th-century kings of Italy 6th-century women regents
Amalric of Bena (; ; died ) was a French theologian, philosopher and sect leader, after whom the Amalricians are named. Reformers such as Martin Luther considered him to be a proto-Protestant. Biography Amalric was born in the latter part of the 12th century at Bennes, a village between Ollé and Chauffours in the diocese of Chartres. Amalric taught philosophy and theology at the University of Paris and enjoyed a great reputation as a subtle dialectician; his lectures developing the philosophy of Aristotle attracted a large audience. In 1204 his doctrines were condemned by the university and, on a personal appeal to Pope Innocent III, the sentence was ratified, Amalric being ordered to return to Paris and recant his errors. His death was caused, it is said, by grief at the humiliation to which he had been subjected. In 1209, ten of his followers were burnt before the gates of Paris and Amalric's own body was exhumed and burnt and the ashes given to the winds. The doctrines of his followers, known as the Amalricians, were formally condemned by the fourth Lateran Council in 1215. Propositions Amalric appears to have derived his philosophical system from a selective reading of Eriugena, whose expressions he developed in a one-sided and strongly pantheistic form. Only three propositions can be attributed to him with certainty: that God is all (omnia sunt deus) and thus all things are one because whatever is, is God (omnia unum, quia quidquid est, est Deus); that every Christian is bound to believe that he is a member of the body of Christ, and that this belief is necessary for salvation; that he who remains in love of God can commit no sin. Because of the first proposition, God himself is thought to be invisible and only recognizable in his creation. These three propositions were further developed by his followers, who maintained that God revealed Himself in a threefold revelation, the first in the Biblical patriarch Abraham, marking the epoch of the Father; the second in Jesus Christ, who began the epoch of the Son; and the third in Amalric and his disciples, who inaugurated the era of the Holy Ghost. Amalricians taught: Hell is ignorance, therefore Hell is within all men, "like a bad tooth in a mouth"; God is identical with all that is, even evil belongs to God and proves God's omnipotence; A man who knows that God works through everything cannot sin, because every human act is then the act of God; A man who recognizes the truth that God works through everything is already in Heaven and this is the only resurrection. There is no other life; man's fulfillment is in this life alone. Due to persecutions, this sect does not appear to have long survived the death of its founder. Not long after the burning of ten of their members (1210), the sect itself lost its importance, while some of the surviving Amalricians became Brethren of the Free Spirit. According to Hosea Ballou, then Pierre Batiffol and George T. Knight (1914) Amalric believed that all people would eventually be saved and this was one of the counts upon which he was declared a heretic by Pope Innocent III. See also Brethren of the Free Spirit References Attribution: This cites: W. Preger, Geschichte der deutschen Mystik im Mittelalter (Leipzig, 1874, i. 167–173) Hauréau, Histoire de la phil. scol. (Paris, 1872) C. Schmidt, Histoire de l'Église d'Occident pendant le moyen âge (Paris, 1885) Hefele, Conciliengeschichte (2nd ed., Freiburg, 1886) Sources Christoph Ulrich Hahn: Geschichte der Ketzer im Mittelalter, Vol. 3 (Stuttgart, 1850) Arno Borst: Religiöse und geistige Bewegungen im Hochmittelalter, Propyläen Weltgeschichte, Ullstein 1963, Vol. 5, p. 537 Friedrich Heer Medieval World Europe 1100-1350 Capelle, G. C., Amaury de Bène, étude sur son panthéisme formel (Paris, 1932). Russell, J. B., The Influence of Amalric of Bene in Thirteenth Century Pantheism (Berkeley, 1957). 1200s deaths 12th-century births 12th-century Christian universalists 12th-century Christian mystics Christian universalist theologians Roman Catholic mystics Pantheists Scholastic philosophers
Afonso II (; English: Alphonzo; Archaic Portuguese: Affonso; Portuguese-Galician: Alfonso or Alphonso; Latin: Alphonsus; 23 April 118525 March 1223), nicknamed the Fat (o Gordo) or the Leper (o Gafo), was the third king of Portugal and the second but eldest surviving son of Sancho I of Portugal and Dulce of Aragon. Afonso succeeded his father on 27 March 1211. Reign As a king, Afonso II set a different approach of government. Hitherto, his father Sancho I and his grandfather Afonso I were mostly concerned with military issues either against the neighbouring Kingdom of Castile or against the Moorish lands in the south. Afonso did not pursue territory enlargement policies and managed to ensure peace with Castile during his reign. Despite this, some towns were conquered from the Moors by the private initiative of noblemen and clergy, as when Bishop Soeiro Viegas initiated the conquest of Alcácer do Sal. This does not mean that he was a weak or somehow cowardly man. The first years of his reign were marked instead by internal disturbances between Afonso and his brothers and sisters. The king managed to keep security within Portuguese borders only by outlawing and exiling his kin. Since military issues were not a government priority, Afonso established the state's administration and centralized power on himself. He designed the first set of Portuguese written laws. These were mainly concerned with private property, civil justice, and minting. Afonso also sent ambassadors to European kingdoms outside the Iberian Peninsula and began amicable commercial relations with most of them. Other reforms included the always delicate matters with the pope. In order to get the independence of Portugal recognized by Rome, his grandfather, Afonso I, had to legislate an enormous number of privileges to the Church. These eventually created a state within the state. With Portugal's position as a country firmly established, Afonso II endeavoured to weaken the power of the clergy and to apply a portion of the enormous revenues of the Catholic Church to purposes of national utility. These actions led to a serious diplomatic conflict between the pope and Portugal. After being excommunicated for his audacities by Pope Honorius III, Afonso II promised to make amends to the church, but he died in Coimbra on 25 March 1223 before making any serious attempts to do so. King Afonso was buried originally at the Monastery of Santa Cruz in Coimbra where his body remained for nearly ten years. His remains were transferred subsequently to Alcobaça Monastery, as he had stipulated in his will. He and his wife, Queen Urraca, were buried at its Royal Pantheon. Marriage and descendants In 1206, he married Urraca, daughter of Alfonso VIII of Castile and Eleanor of England. The couple were both descendants of King Alfonso VI of León. The offspring of this marriage were: Sancho II (8 September 12074 January 1248), king of Portugal; Afonso III (5 May 121016 February 1279), king of Portugal; Eleanor (1211–1231), queen of Denmark Ferdinand (1218–1246), lord of Serpa Out of wedlock, he had two illegitimate sons: João Afonso (d. 9 October 1234), buried in the Alcobaça monastery; Pedro Afonso (d. after 1249), who accompanied his brother King Afonso in the conquest of Faro in 1249. He had an illegitimate daughter named Constança Peres. Ancestry References Bibliography Portuguese infantes House of Burgundy-Portugal People excommunicated by the Catholic Church 1185 births 1223 deaths People of the Reconquista People from Coimbra 12th-century Portuguese people 13th-century Portuguese monarchs
Afonso III (; rare English alternatives: Alphonzo or Alphonse), or Affonso (Archaic Portuguese), Alfonso or Alphonso (Portuguese-Galician) or Alphonsus (Latin), the Boulonnais (Port. o Bolonhês), King of Portugal (5 May 121016 February 1279) was the first to use the title King of Portugal and the Algarve, from 1249. He was the second son of King Afonso II of Portugal and his wife, Urraca of Castile; he succeeded his brother, King Sancho II of Portugal, who died on 4 January 1248. Early life Afonso was born in Coimbra. As the second son of King Afonso II of Portugal, he was not expected to inherit the throne, which was destined to go to his elder brother Sancho. He lived mostly in France, where he married Countess Matilda II of Boulogne in 1238, thereby becoming count of Boulogne, Mortain, Aumale and Dammartin-en-Goële jure uxoris. Reign In 1246, conflicts between his brother, the king, and the church became unbearable. In 1247, Pope Innocent IV ordered Sancho II to be removed from the throne and to be replaced by the Count of Boulogne. Afonso did not refuse the papal order and consequently marched to Portugal. Since Sancho was not a popular king the order was not hard to enforce, and he fled in exile to Toledo, Castile, where he died on 4 January 1248. Until his brother's death and his own eventual coronation, Afonso retained and used the title of Visitador, Curador e Defensor do Reino (Overseer, Curator and Defender of the Kingdom). In order to ascend the throne Afonso abdicated his rights to the county of Boulogne in 1248. In 1253, he divorced Matilde in order to marry Beatrice of Castile, illegitimate daughter of Alfonso X, King of Castile, and Mayor Guillén de Guzmán. Determined not to make the same mistakes as his brother, Afonso III paid special attention to what the middle class, composed of merchants and small land owners, had to say. In 1254, in the city of Leiria, he held the first session of the Cortes, a general assembly comprising the nobility, the middle class and representatives of all municipalities. He also made laws intended to restrain the upper classes from abusing the least favored part of the population. Remembered as a notable administrator, Afonso III founded several towns, granted the title of city to many others and reorganized public administration. Afonso showed extraordinary vision for the time. Progressive measures taken during his kingship include: representatives of the commons, besides the nobility and clergy, were involved in governance; the end of preventive arrests such that henceforward all arrests had to be first presented to a judge to determine the detention measure; and fiscal innovation, such as negotiating extraordinary taxes with the mercantile classes and direct taxation of the Church, rather than debasement of the coinage. These may have led to his excommunication by the holy see and possibly precipitated his death, and his son Denis's premature rise to the throne at only 18 years old. Secure on the throne, Afonso III then proceeded to make war with the Muslim communities that still thrived in the south. In his reign the Algarve became part of the kingdom, following the capture of Faro. Final years and death Following his success against the Moors, Afonso III had to deal with a political situation concerning the country's borders with Castile. The neighbouring kingdom considered that the newly acquired lands of the Algarve should be Castilian, not Portuguese, which led to a series of wars between the two kingdoms. Finally, in 1267, the Treaty of Badajoz (1267) was signed in Badajoz, determining that the southern border between Castile and Portugal should be the River Guadiana, as it is today. Afonso died in Alcobaça, Coimbra or Lisbon, aged 68. Marriages and descendants Afonso's first wife was Matilda II, Countess of Boulogne, daughter of Renaud, Count of Dammartin, and Ida, Countess of Boulogne. They had no surviving children. He divorced Matilda in 1253 and, in the same year, married Beatrice of Castile, illegitimate daughter of Alfonso X, King of Castile, and Mayor Guillén de Guzmán. References Portuguese Roman Catholics Portuguese infantes House of Burgundy-Portugal People of the Reconquista 1210 births 1279 deaths People from Coimbra 13th-century Portuguese monarchs Jure uxoris officeholders Counts of Mortain Counts of Aumale Counts of Dammartin Counts of Boulogne
Afonso IV (; 8 February 129128 May 1357), called the Brave (), was King of Portugal from 1325 until his death in 1357. He was the only legitimate son of King Denis of Portugal and Elizabeth of Aragon. Early life Afonso, born in Lisbon, was the rightful heir to the Portuguese throne. However, he was not Denis' favourite son, the old king preferring his illegitimate son, Afonso Sanches. The notorious rivalry between the half brothers led to civil war several times. On 7 January 1325, Afonso IV's father died and he became king, whereupon he exiled his rival, Afonso Sanches, to Castile, and stripped him of all the lands and fiefdom given by their father. From Castile, Afonso Sanches orchestrated a series of attempts to usurp the crown. After a few failed attempts at invasion, the brothers signed a peace treaty, arranged by Afonso IV's mother, Elizabeth. In 1309, Afonso married Beatrice of Castile, daughter of King Sancho IV of Castile and María de Molina. The first-born of this union was a daughter, Maria of Portugal. King of Portugal and Algarve In 1325 Alfonso XI of Castile entered a child-marriage with Constanza Manuel of Castile, the daughter of one of his regents. Two years later, he had the marriage annulled so he could marry Afonso's daughter, Maria of Portugal. Maria became Queen of Castile in 1328 upon her marriage to Alfonso XI, who soon became involved publicly with a mistress. Constanza was imprisoned in a castle in Toro while her father, Don Juan Manuel, waged war against Alfonso XI until 1329. Eventually, the two reached a peaceful accord after mediation by Juan del Campo, Bishop of Oviedo; this secured Constanza's release from prison. The public humiliation of his daughter led Afonso IV to have his son and heir, Peter I of Portugal, marry the no less aggrieved Castilian infanta, Constanza. Afonso subsequently started a war against Castile, peace arriving four years later, through the intervention of the infanta Maria herself. A year after the peace treaty was signed in Seville, Portuguese troops played an important role in defeating the Moors at the Battle of Río Salado in October 1340. Later life Political intrigue marked the last part of Afonso IV's reign, although Castille was torn by civil war after Alfonso XI died. Henry of Trastámara challenged the new King Peter of Castile, who sent many Castilian nobles into exile in Portugal. Afonso's son Peter fell in love with his new wife's lady-in-waiting, Inês de Castro. Inês was the daughter of an important noble family from Galicia, with links (albeit illegitimate) to both the royal houses of Castile and Portugal. Her brothers were aligned with the Trastamara faction, and became favorites of Peter, much to the dismay of others at the Portuguese court, who considered them Castilian upstarts. When Constanza died weeks after giving birth to their third child, Peter began living openly with Inês, recognized all her children as his and refused to marry anyone other than Inês herself. His father refused to go to war again against Castile, hoping the heir apparent's infatuation would end, and tried to arrange another dynastic marriage for him. The situation became worse as the years passed and the aging Afonso lost control over his court. His grandson and Peter's only legitimate son, Ferdinand I of Portugal, was a sickly child, while Inês' illegitimate children thrived. Worried about his legitimate grandson's life, and the growing power of Castile within Portugal's borders, Afonso ordered Inês de Castro first imprisoned in his mother's old convent in Coimbra, and then murdered in 1355. He expected his son to give in and marry a princess, but Peter became enraged upon learning of his wife's decapitation in front of their young children. Peter put himself at the head of an army and devastated the country between the Douro and the Minho rivers before he was reconciled to his father in early 1357. Afonso died almost immediately after, in Lisbon in May. Afonso IV's nickname the Brave alludes to his martial exploits. However, his most important accomplishments were the relative peace enjoyed by the country during his long reign and the support he gave to the Portuguese Navy. Afonso granted public funding to raise a proper commercial fleet and ordered the first Portuguese maritime explorations. The conflict with Pedro, and the explorations he initiated, eventually became the foundation of the Portuguese national epic, Os Lusíadas by Luís de Camões. The dramatic circumstances of the relationship between father, son and Inês was used as the basis for the plot of more than twenty operas and ballets. The story with its tragic dénouement is immortalized in several plays and poems in Portuguese, such as Os Lusíadas by Luís de Camões (canto iii, stanzas 118–135), and in Spanish, including Nise lastimosa and Nise laureada (1577) by Jerónimo Bermúdez, Reinar despues de morir by Luis Vélez de Guevara, as well as a play by French playwright Henry de Montherlant called La Reine morte (The Dead Queen). Mary Russell Mitford also wrote a drama based on the story entitled Inez de Castro. Inês de Castro is a novel by Maria Pilar Queralt del Hierro in Spanish and Portuguese. Marriage and descendants On 12 September 1309, Afonso married Beatrice of Castile, daughter of Sancho IV of Castile, and María de Molina, and had four sons and three daughters. Afonso broke the tradition of previous kings and did not have any children out of wedlock. Maria of Portugal, Queen of Castile (131318 January 1357), was the wife of Alfonso XI of Castile, and mother of the future King Peter of Castile. Due to the affair of her husband with his mistress Eleanor de Guzmán "it was an unfortunate union from the start, contributing to dampening the relations of both kingdoms"; Afonso (1315–1317), died in his infancy. Buried at the disappeared Convento das Donas of the Dominican Order in Santarém; Denis (born 12 February 1317), died a few months after his birth, and was buried in Alcobaça Monastery; Peter I of Portugal (8 April 132018 January 1367), the first surviving male offspring, he succeeded his father. When his wife Constanza died in 1345, Beatrice took care of the education of the two orphans, the infantes Maria and Ferdinand I of Portugal, who later became king; Isabel (21 December 132411 July 1326), buried at the Monastery of Santa Clara-a-Velha in Coimbra; John (23 September 132621 June 1327), buried at the Monastery of São Dinis de Odivelas; Eleanor of Portugal, Queen of Aragon (1328–1348), born in the same year as her sister Maria's wedding, she married King Peter IV of Aragon in November 1347 and died a year after her marriage, succumbing to the Black Death. Notes References Bibliography Portuguese infantes Portuguese Roman Catholics House of Burgundy-Portugal 1291 births 1357 deaths Nobility from Lisbon People of the Reconquista 14th-century Portuguese monarchs
Afonso V () (15 January 1432 – 28 August 1481), known by the sobriquet the African (), was king of Portugal from 1438 until his death in 1481, with a brief interruption in 1477. His sobriquet refers to his military conquests in Northern Africa. Early life Afonso was born in Sintra, the second son of King Edward of Portugal by his wife Eleanor of Aragon. Following the death of his older brother, Infante João (1429–1433), Afonso acceded to the position of heir apparent and was made the first Prince of Portugal by his father, who sought to emulate the English Court's custom of a dynastic title that distinguished the heir apparent from the other children of the monarch. He was only six years old when he succeeded his father in 1438. During his minority, Afonso was placed under the regency of his mother, Eleanor, in accordance with the will left by his late father. As both a foreigner and a woman, the queen was not a popular choice for regent. When the cortes met in late 1438, a law was passed requiring a joint regency consisting of Eleanor and Pedro, Duke of Coimbra, the younger brother of the late king. The dual regency was a failure and in 1439, the cortes named Pedro "protector and guardian" of the king and "ruler and defender" of the kingdom. Eleanor attempted to resist, but without support in Portugal she fled to Castile. Pedro's main policies were concerned with restricting the political power of the great noble houses and expanding the powers of the crown. The country prospered under his rule, but not peacefully, as his laws interfered with the ambition of powerful nobles. The count of Barcelos, a personal enemy of the Duke of Coimbra (despite being half-brothers) eventually became the king's favourite uncle and began a constant struggle for power. In 1442, the king made the count his uncle Afonso the first Duke of Braganza. With this title and its lands, he became the most powerful man in Portugal and one of the richest men in Europe. To secure his position as regent, Pedro had Afonso marry his daughter, Isabella of Coimbra, in 1445. But on 9 June 1448, when the king came of age, Pedro had to surrender his power to Afonso V. The years of conspiracy by the Duke of Braganza finally came to a head. On 15 September of the same year, Afonso V nullified all the laws and edicts approved under the regency. In the following year, led by what were later discovered to be false accusations, Afonso declared Pedro a rebel and defeated his army in the Battle of Alfarrobeira, in which his uncle (and father-in-law) was killed. Invasion of Morocco Afonso V then turned his attentions to North Africa. In the reign of his grandfather John I, Ceuta had been conquered and taken over from the king of Morocco, and now the new king wanted to expand the conquests. The king's army conquered Alcácer Ceguer in 1458 and Arzila in 1471. Tangiers, on the other hand, was won and lost several times between 1460 and 1464. These achievements granted the king the nickname of the African or Africano. After the capture of Alcácer Ceguer in 1458, Afonso gave himself the title "king of Portugal and the Algarves", where the plural form of Algarve was meant to refer to both the original Kingdom of the Algarve in southern Portuguese as well as the new territories in Africa. The king also supported the exploration of the Atlantic Ocean led by prince Henry the Navigator but after Henry's death in 1460, he did nothing to continue Henry's work. Administratively, Afonso V was a passive king. He chose not to pursue the revision of laws or development of commerce, preferring instead to preserve the legacy of his father Edward and grandfather John I. In 1469, King Afonso V of Portugal granted Fernão Gomes the monopoly of trade in the Gulf of Guinea. In 1452, Pope Nicholas V issued the papal bull Dum Diversas, which granted Afonso V the right to reduce "Saracens, pagans and any other unbelievers" to hereditary slavery. This was reaffirmed and extended in the Romanus Pontifex bull of 1455 (also by Nicholas V). These papal bulls came to be seen by some as a justification for the subsequent era of slave trade and European colonialism. Castile When the campaigns in Africa were over, Afonso V found new grounds for battle in neighboring Castile. On 11 December 1474 King Henry IV of Castile died without a male heir, leaving just one daughter, Joanna. However, her paternity was questioned; it was rumored that his wife, Queen Joan of Portugal (Afonso's sister) had an affair with a nobleman named Beltrán de La Cueva. The death of Henry ignited a war of succession with one faction supporting Joanna and the other supporting Isabella, Henry's half-sister. Afonso V was persuaded to intervene on behalf of Joanna, his niece. He betrothed himself to her, proclaimed himself king of Castile and led troops into the kingdom. Because of their close blood-relationship, a formal marriage had to wait for papal dispensation. On 12 May 1475 Afonso entered Castile with an army of 5,600 cavalry and 14,000 foot soldiers. In March 1476, after several skirmishes and much maneuvering, the 8, 000 men of Afonso and Prince João, faced a Castilian force of similar size in the battle of Toro. The Castilians were led by Isabella's husband, Prince Ferdinand II of Aragon, Cardinal Mendoza and the Duke of Alba. The fight was fierce and confusing but the result was a stalemate: While the forces of Cardinal Mendoza and the Duke of Alba won over their opponents led by the Portuguese King –who left the battlefield to take refuge in Castronuño, the troops commanded by Prince Joao defeated and persecuted the troops of the Castilian right wing, recovered the Portuguese royal standard, remaining ordered in the battlefield where they collected the fugitives of Afonso. Both sides claimed victory but Afonso's prospects for obtaining the Castilian crown were severely damaged. After the battle, Afonso sailed to France hoping to obtain the assistance of King Louis XI in his fight against Castile. But finding himself deceived by the French monarch, he returned to Portugal in 1477. Disillusioned, he abdicated for a few days in November 1477 in favor of his son John II, then after returning to the throne, he retired to a monastery in Sintra, where he died in 1481. Marriages and descendants Afonso married firstly, in 1447, Isabella of Coimbra, with whom he had three children: John, Prince of Portugal (29 January 1451). Joan, Princess of Portugal (6 February 1452 – 12 May 1490): Known as Saint Joan of Portugal or Saint Joan Princess. John II of Portugal (3 March 1455 – 25 October 1495): Succeeded his father as 13th King of Portugal. After the death of his wife in 1455, he had at least one child out of wedlock with Maria Soares da Cunha, daughter of Afonso's major valet, Fernao de Sa Alcoforado: Alvaro Soares da Cunha (1466-1557), Noble of the Royal House, Lord of the House of Quintas in Sao Vicente de Pinheiro, Porto and Chief Guard of Pestilence in Porto. Ancestry Notes Bibliography English Downey, Kirstin: Isabella: the Warrior Queen, Anchor Books, New York, 2014 Miller, Townsend: The battle of Toro, 1476, in History Today, volume 14, 1964. Non-English Saul, António: Dom Afonso V, vol. 12 of Reis de Portugal, 2009, Temas e Debates-Actividades Editoriais, External links Works of Afonso V at the National Digital Library of Portugal 1432 births 1481 deaths 15th-century Portuguese monarchs House of Aviz Knights of the Garter People from Sintra Portuguese exploration in the Age of Discovery Portuguese infantes Portuguese people of English descent Princes of Portugal Sons of kings
Afonso VI (; 21 August 164312 September 1683), known as "the Victorious" (), was the second king of Portugal of the House of Braganza from 1656 until his death. He was initially under the regency of his mother, Luisa de Guzmán, until 1662, when he removed her to a convent and took power with the help of his favourite, the Luís de Vasconcelos e Sousa, 3rd Count of Castelo Melhor. Afonso's reign saw the end of the Restoration War (1640–68) and Spain's recognition of Portugal's independence. He also negotiated a French alliance through his marriage. In 1668, his brother Pedro II conspired to have him declared incapable of ruling, and took supreme de facto power as regent, although nominally Afonso was still sovereign. Queen Maria Francisca, Afonso's wife, received an annulment and subsequently married Pedro. Afonso spent the rest of his life and reign practically a prisoner. Early life Afonso was the second of three sons born to King John IV and Queen Luisa. At the age of three, he experienced an illness that resulted in paralysis on the right side of his body. The condition was believed to have also affected his intellectual abilities. His father created him 10th Duke of Braganza. After the death of his eldest brother Teodósio, Prince of Brazil in 1653, Afonso became the heir apparent to the throne of the kingdom. He also received the crown-princely title 2nd Prince of Brazil. Reign He succeeded his father, John IV, in 1656 at the age of thirteen. His mother, Luisa de Guzmán, was named regent in his father's will. Luisa's regency continued even after Afonso came of age because he was considered mentally unfit for governing. In addition to lacking intellect, the king exhibited wild and disruptive behavior. In 1662, after Afonso terrorized Lisbon at night alongside his favorites, Luisa and her council responded by banishing some of the king's companions that were associated with the raids. Angered, Afonso took power with the help of Castelo-Melhor and Luisa's regency came to an end. She subsequently retired to a convent, where she died in 1666. Afonso appointed Castelo-Melhor as his private secretary (escrivão da puridade). He proved to be a competent minister. His astute military organization and sensible general appointments resulted in decisive military victories over the Spanish at Elvas (14 January 1659), Ameixial (8 June 1663) and Montes Claros (17 June 1665), culminating in the final Spanish recognition of sovereignty of Portugal's new ruling dynasty, the House of Braganza, on 13 February 1668 in the Treaty of Lisbon. Colonial affairs Colonial affairs saw the Dutch conquest of Jaffna, Portugal's last colony in Portuguese Ceylon (1658), and the cession of Bombay and Tangier to England (23 June 1661) as dowry for Afonso's sister, Catherine of Braganza, who had married King Charles II of England. Marriage Melhor successfully arranged for Afonso to marry Maria Francisca of Savoy, a relative of the Duke of Savoy, in 1666, but the marriage was short-lived. Maria Francisca filed for an annulment in 1667 based on the impotence of the king. The church granted her the annulment, and she married Afonso's brother, Peter II, Duke of Beja. Downfall Also in 1667, Peter managed to gain enough support to force Afonso to relinquish control of the government to him, and he became prince regent in 1668. While Pedro never formally usurped the throne, Afonso was king in name only for the rest of his life. For seven years after Peter's coup, Afonso was kept on the island of Terceira in the Azores. His health broken by this captivity, he was eventually permitted to return to the Portuguese mainland, but he remained powerless and kept under guard. At Sintra he died in 1683. The room where he was imprisoned is preserved at Sintra National Palace. Ancestry References Sources Portuguese infantes Dukes of Braganza Modern child monarchs 1643 births 1683 deaths Portuguese people with disabilities Princes of Brazil House of Braganza 17th-century Portuguese monarchs Nobility from Lisbon Royalty and nobility with disabilities Burials at the Monastery of São Vicente de Fora Royal reburials
There has not been a monarch known as Alphonso or Alfonso I of Spain, the first king of that name of the unified Spain being Alfonso XII (1857–1885). Several precursor kingdoms have had an Alfonso I, including: Alfonso I of Asturias ( – 757) Alfonso I of Aragon and Navarre ( – 1134), known as the Battler Alfonso II of Aragon, also known as Alfons I, Count of Barcelona (1157–1196), called the Chaste or the Troubadour
Alfonso II of Asturias (842), nicknamed the Chaste (), was the king of Asturias during two different periods: first in the year 783 and later from 791 until his death in 842. Upon his death, Nepotian, a family member of undetermined relation, attempted to usurp the crown in place of the future Ramiro I. During his reign, which covered a span of 51 years, Alfonso discovered the supposed tomb of St. James the Great (called in Spanish) in the town of Compostela, which later became known as the city of Santiago de Compostela. He was the son of Fruela I and Munia, a Basque woman captured and brought back to Asturias by the former following a military campaign. Early life He was born in Oviedo in 759 or 760. He was put under the guardianship of his aunt Adosinda after his father's death, but one tradition relates his being put in the Monastery of San Xulián de Samos. He was the governor of the palace during the reign of Adosinda's husband Silo. On Silo's death, he was elected king by Adosinda's allies, but the magnates raised his uncle Mauregatus to the throne instead. Alfonso fled to Álava where he found shelter with his maternal relatives. Mauregatus was succeeded by Bermudo I, Alfonso's cousin, who abdicated after his defeat at the Battle of the Burbia River. Alfonso proclaimed king Alfonso was subsequently elected king on 14 September 791. Poets of a later generation invented the story of the secret marriage between his sister Ximena and Sancho, count of Saldana, and the feats of their son Bernardo del Carpio. Bernardo is the hero of a written to please the anarchical spirit of the nobles. Andalusian raids into Asturias On accession to the throne, Hisham I, son of Abd al-Rahman I, commenced a string of military campaigns in the eastern Pyrenees and to the north-west. In 794, a raid spearheaded by Abd al-Karim dealt a major military blow to Alfonso II on the eastern fringes of the Kingdom of Asturias (Cantabria and Castile). The Asturian king asked for the assistance of the Basque Frankish vassal Belasco, master of Álava and bordering regions at the time. Abd al-Karim advanced deeper west into Asturias and pillaged the region, while his brother Abd al-Malik ventured into the western Asturian lands. Relations with Charlemagne and the Papacy Under pressure from his enemies, Alfonso II reached out to Charlemagne, sending delegations to Toulouse and Aix-la-Chapelle in 796, 797, and 798. These diplomatic efforts may have aimed to strengthen his legitimacy and the Asturian government against ongoing internal unrest——viz., troubles in Galicia——and external attacks of the Ibn Mugait brothers, the generals Abd al-Karim and Abd al-Malik. Alfonso was acknowledged as a king by Charlemagne and the Pope, and Asturias as a kingdom for the first time. The king showed an interest in the Frankish cult of Saint Martin of Tours, and he encouraged Carolingian Church influence in Asturias. Also, during Alfonso's reign, the alleged resting place of St. James was revealed. Alfonso's envoys to Charlemagne's courts may have also dealt with the adoptionist controversy, which had brought Bermudo's kingdom into Charlemagne's view. It seems that Carolingian support did much to spur his raid into Andalusian territory up to Lisbon, which was captured and sacked by his troops in 798. Later events In 825, he defeated Cordovan forces at Narón and Anceo and, thanks to these victories, the "repopulation" of parts of Galicia, León, and Castile was started— with charters granted that confirmed the possession of the territories. Alfonso also moved the capital from Pravia, where Silo had located it, to Oviedo, the city of his father's founding and his birth. There he constructed churches and a palace. He built San Tirso, where he is buried, and Santullano, on the outskirts. The Crónica Sebastianense records his death in 842, saying: tras haber llevado por 52 años casta, sobria, inmaculada, piadosa y gloriosamente el gobierno del reino [after having held for 52 years chastely, soberly, immaculately, piously, and gloriously the government of the realm] Tradition relates that in 814, the body of Saint James was discovered in Compostela and that Alfonso was the first pilgrim to the shrine at Libredón. References 8th-century births 842 deaths Beni Alfons 8th-century Asturian monarchs 9th-century Asturian monarchs
Amarasimha (IAST: , ) was a Sanskrit grammarian and poet from ancient India, of whose personal history hardly anything is known. He is said to have been "one of the nine gems that adorned the throne of Vikramaditya," and according to the evidence of Xuanzang, this is the Chandragupta Vikramaditya (Chandragupta II) who flourished about CE 375. Other sources describe him as belonging to the period of Vikramaditya of 7th century. Most of Amarasiṃha's works were lost, with the exception of the celebrated Amara-Kosha (IAST: ) (Treasury of Amara). The first reliable mention of the Amarakosha is in the Amoghavritti of Shakatayana composed during the reign of Amoghavarsha (814-867 CE) The Amarakosha is a lexicon of Sanskrit words in three books, and hence is sometimes called the Trikāṇḍī or the "Tripartite". It is also known as "Namalinganushasana". The Amarakosha contains 10,000 words, and is arranged, like other works of its class, in metre, to aid the memory. The first chapter of the Kosha was printed at Rome in Tamil character in 1798. An edition of the entire work, with English notes and an index by Henry Thomas Colebrooke appeared at Serampore in 1808. The Sanskrit text was printed at Calcutta in 1831. A French translation by ALA Loiseleur-Deslongchamps was published at Paris in 1839. B. L. Rice compiled the text in Kannada script with meanings in English and Kannada in 1927. References Attribution: External links Amarakosha Sanskrit text Indian Buddhists Indian male poets 4th-century Indian poets Year of birth unknown Year of death unknown Sanskrit writers
Amaryllis () is the only genus in the subtribe Amaryllidinae (tribe Amaryllideae). It is a small genus of flowering bulbs, with two species. The better known of the two, Amaryllis belladonna, is a native of the Western Cape region of South Africa, particularly the rocky southwest area between the Olifants River Valley and Knysna. For many years there was confusion among botanists over the generic names Amaryllis and Hippeastrum, one result of which is that the common name 'amaryllis' is mainly used for cultivars of the genus Hippeastrum, widely sold in the winter months for their ability to bloom indoors. Plants of the genus Amaryllis are known as belladonna lily, Jersey lily, naked lady, amarillo, Easter lily in Southern Australia or, in South Africa, March lily due to its propensity to flower around March. This is one of numerous genera with the common name 'lily' due to their flower shape and growth habit. However, they are only distantly related to the true lily, Lilium. In the Victorian language of flowers, amaryllis means "love, beauty, and determination", and can also represent hope and achievement. Description Amaryllis is a bulbous plant, with each bulb being in diameter. It has several strap-shaped, hysteranthous, green leaves with midrib, long and broad, arranged in two rows. Each bulb produces one or two leafless, stout, persistent and erect stems tall, each of which bears at the top a cluster of two to twelve zygomorphic, funnel-shaped flowers without a tube. Each flower is diameter with six spreading tepals (three outer sepals, three inner petals, with similar appearance to each other). The usual color is white with crimson veins, but pink or purple also occur naturally. Stamens are very shortly connate basally, declinate, unequal. Style is declinate, stigma is three-lobed. Ovules are approx. 8 per locule. Seeds are compressed-globose, white to pink. The number of chromosomes is 2n = 22. Taxonomy The single genus is in subtribe Amaryllidinae, in the tribe Amaryllideae. The taxonomy of the genus has been controversial. In 1753 Carl Linnaeus created the name Amaryllis belladonna, the type species of the genus Amaryllis. At the time both South African and South American plants were placed in the same genus; subsequently they were separated into two different genera. The key question is whether Linnaeus's type was a South African plant or a South American plant. If the latter, Amaryllis would be the correct name for the genus Hippeastrum, and a different name would have to be used for the genus discussed here. Alan W. Meerow et al. have briefly summarized the debate, which took place from 1938 onwards and involved botanists on both sides of the Atlantic. The outcome was a decision by the 14th International Botanical Congress in 1987 that Amaryllis should be a conserved name (i.e. correct regardless of priority) and ultimately based on a specimen of the South African Amaryllis belladonna from the Clifford Herbarium at the Natural History Museum in London. Species , Amaryllis had only two accepted species, both native to the Cape Provinces of South Africa: Amaryllis belladonna – south-west Cape Provinces; introduced into many parts of the world, including California, Great Britain, Australia and New Zealand Amaryllis paradisicola – west Cape Provinces Phylogeny Amaryllidinae are placed within Amaryllideae as follow: These are phylogenetically related as follows: Etymology The name Amaryllis is taken from a shepherdess in Virgil's pastoral Eclogues, (from the Greek . Although the 1987 decision settled the question of the scientific name of the genus, the common name 'amaryllis' continues to be used differently. Bulbs sold as amaryllis and described as "ready to bloom for the holidays" belong to the allied genus Hippeastrum. The common name "naked lady" comes from the plant's pattern of flowering when the foliage has died down. This name is also used for other bulbs with a similar growth and flowering pattern; some of these have their own widely used and accepted common names, such as the resurrection lily (Lycoris squamigera). Habitat In areas of its native habitat with mountainous fynbos flowering tends to be suppressed until after bush fires as dense overhead vegetation prevents growth. In more open sandy areas of the Western Cape, the plant flowers annually. Plants tend to be very localized in dense concentrations due to the seeds' large size and heavy weight. Strong winds shake loose the seeds, which fall to ground and immediately start to germinate, aided by the first winter rains. Ecology The leaves are produced in the autumn or early spring in warm climates depending on the onset of rain and eventually die down by late spring. The bulb is then dormant until late summer. The plant is not frost-tolerant, nor does it do well in tropical environments since they require a dry resting period between leaf growth and flower spike production. One or two leafless stems arise from the bulb in the dry ground in late summer (March in its native habitat and August in USDA zone 7). The plant has a symbiotic relationship with carpenter bees. It is also visited by noctuid moths at night. The relative importance of these insects as pollinators has not yet been established; however, carpenter bees are thought to be the main pollinators of amaryllis on the Cape Peninsula. The plant's main parasite is the lily borer Brithys crini and/or Diaphone eumela. Cultivation Amaryllis belladonna was introduced into cultivation at the beginning of the eighteenth century. It reproduces slowly by either bulb division or seeds and has gradually naturalized from plantings in urban and suburban areas throughout the lower elevations and coastal areas in much of the West Coast of the US since these environments mimic their native South African habitat. Hardiness zones 6–8. It is also naturalized in Australia. There is an Amaryllis belladonna hybrid which was bred in the 1800s in Australia. No one knows the exact species it was crossed with to produce color variations of white, cream, peach, magenta and nearly red hues. The hybrids were crossed back onto the original Amaryllis belladonna and with each other to produce naturally seed-bearing crosses that come in a very wide range of flower sizes, shapes, stem heights and intensities of pink. Pure white varieties with bright green stems were bred as well. The hybrids are quite distinct in that the many shades of pink also have stripes, veining, darkened edges, white centers and light yellow centers, also setting them apart from the original light pink. In addition, the hybrids often produce flowers in a fuller circle rather than the "side-facing" habit of the "old-fashioned" pink. The hybrids are able to adapt to year-round watering and fertilization but can also tolerate completely dry summer conditions if need be. A. belladonna has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit. Amaryllis belladonna has been crossed in cultivation with Crinum moorei to produce a hybrid called × Amarcrinum, which has named cultivars. Hybrids said to be between Amaryllis belladonna and Brunsvigia josephinae have been called × Amarygia. Neither hybrid genus name is accepted by the World Checklist of Selected Plant Families. See also List of plants known as lily References Further reading Amaryllidoideae Amaryllidaceae genera Endemic flora of the Cape Provinces Garden plants of Africa Taxa named by Carl Linnaeus
Alfonso III (4 November 1265 – 18 June 1291), called the Liberal (el Liberal) and the Free (also "the Frank", from el Franc), was king of Aragon and Valencia, and count of Barcelona (as ) from 1285 until his death. He conquered the Kingdom of Majorca between his succession and 1287. Life Alfonso was the son of King Peter III of Aragon and Constance, daughter and heiress of King Manfred of Sicily. Soon after assuming the throne, he conducted a campaign to reincorporate the Balearic Islands into the Kingdom of Aragon, which had been lost due to the division of the kingdom by his grandfather, James I of Aragon. Thus in 1285 he declared war on his uncle, James II of Majorca, and conquered both Majorca (1285) and Ibiza (1286), effectively reassuming suzerainty over the Kingdom of Majorca. He followed this with the conquest of Menorca – until then an autonomous Muslim state (Manûrqa) within the Kingdom of Majorca – on 17 January 1287, the anniversary of which now serves as Menorca's national holiday. Alfonso initially sought to maintain Aragonese control over Sicily by supporting the claims of his brother James II to the island. However, he later retracted his support for his brother shortly before his death and instead tried to make peace with the Papal States and with France. His reign was marred by a constitutional struggle with the Aragonese nobles, which eventually culminated in the articles of the Union of Aragon – the so-called "Magna Carta of Aragon", which devolved several key royal powers into the hands of lesser nobles. His inability to resist the demands of his nobles was to leave a heritage of disunity in Aragon and further dissent amongst the nobility, who increasingly saw little reason to respect the throne, and brought the Kingdom of Aragon close to anarchy. During his lifetime a dynastic marriage with Eleanor, daughter of King Edward I of England, was arranged. However, Alfonso died before meeting his bride, at the age of 25 in 1291, and was buried in the Franciscan convent in Barcelona; since 1852 his remains have been buried in Barcelona Cathedral. In culture Dante Alighieri, in the Divine Comedy, recounts that he saw Alfonso's spirit seated outside the gates of Purgatory with the other monarchs whom Dante blamed for the chaotic political state of Europe during the 13th century. References Sources 1265 births 1291 deaths 13th-century Aragonese monarchs People from Valencia Counts of Barcelona Valencian monarchs House of Aragon Burials at Barcelona Cathedral People of the War of the Sicilian Vespers Aragonese infantes
Alfonso IV, called the Kind (also the Gentle or the Nice, ) (2 November 1299 – 24 January 1336) was King of Aragon and Count of Barcelona (as Alfons III) from 1327 to his death. His reign saw the incorporation of the County of Urgell, Duchy of Athens, and Duchy of Neopatria into the Crown of Aragon. Biography Alfonso was born in Naples, the second son of James II and Blanche of Anjou. In 1314, aged 14, he married Teresa d'Entença y Cabrera, heiress of Urgell, who was the same age as him. Teresa's granduncle Ermengol X of Urgell had died childless in La Llitera; before his death, he had agreed to make Alfonso his heir, on condition that Alfonso would marry Teresa, who was his nearest kin. Alfonso was at this time only the second son (and not the heir) of the king of Aragon. He and his father readily agreed to Ermengol's condition, and Alfonso married Teresa in 1314 in the Cathedral of Lerida. The teenage bridegroom is reputed to have been so liberal in the expenses during the wedding, that the local counsels imposed restrictions on how much he could spend. Alfonso and Teresa became the parents of seven children. Alfonso became heir to the throne in December 1319 after his older brother James renounced his rights to become a monk. During the reign of his father, Alfonso was the procurator-general of the Crown, and in 1323–1324, he undertook the conquest of Sardinia. Alfonso's father and first wife Teresa died within a few days of each other in 1327. Teresa died in childbirth on 20 October 1327, and James II died on 2 November 1327, whereupon Alfonso became king. In 1329, he began a long war with the Republic of Genoa. The city of Sassari had previously surrendered to Alfonso in 1323, but rebelled three more times; its possession was contested by Genoa, which led to the protracted war. In February 1329, Alfonso married Eleanor of Castile (1308–1359), the sister of king Alfonso XI of Castile. Eleanor had been briefly married to Alfonso's elder brother James the monk. That marriage, which James had refused to consummate, had been annulled in 1319–20. Eleanor had thereafter retired to a convent (although she never took the veil) and had remained unmarried. By December the same year, the couple were rejoiced to become the parents of a son, Ferdinand, who was followed five years later by another son, John. Eleanor earnestly sought to advance the interests of her own infant sons over those of her stepson, the Infante Peter, who was the heir-apparent. She convinced her husband to grant very large and significant territories to her sons. on 28 December 1329, Alfonso granted his new-born son Ferdinand the Marquisate of Tortosa and the cities of Albarracín, Orihuela, Callosa d'en Sarrià, Guardamar, Alicante, Monforte, Elda, La Mola, Novelda and Aspe. Eleanor's younger son John, who was born five years later, was also granted several lordships when he was only a toddler: Elche, Biel and Bolsa were all bestowed upon him. These territories would be controlled by Eleanor, who had also received the city of Huesca and some other villages and castles belonging to the Aragonese crown at the time of her wedding. Nor was this all. While all of the above grants had been made from among the possessions of the Aragonese crown, the King also sought to bestow estates located within the Kingdom of Valencia upon the toddler Ferdinand, but he was prevented from doing so. When the King granted Ferdinand the cities of Xàtiva, Alzira, Sagunto, Morella, Burriana and Castellón de la Plana, all located in the Kingdom of Valencia, the local subjects protested, and for this reason the King decided to revoked these patents. These grants of land diminished the territorial patrimony of the crown and mainly affected the Infante Peter, Alfonso's son by his first wife, who however was too young to make any significant protest. However, the issue agitated the court, created a climate of resentment and divided the nobility into two camps. Alfonso died in January 1336, aged only 36. He was succeeded by Peter IV, his 16-year-old son from his first marriage. Children By Teresa d'Entença: Alfonso (1315–1317) Constance (1318–1346), married in 1336 to James III of Majorca. Peter IV (1319–1387), successor. James I, Count of Urgell (1321–1347), also inherited Entença and Antillon. Elizabeth (1323–1327). Frederick (1325-died young). Sancho (1327), lived only a few days. By Eleanor of Castile: Ferdinand (1329–1363), Marquis of Tortosa and Lord of Albarracín and Fraga; married Maria, Marchioness of Tortosa and was killed by order of his brother Peter IV. John (1331–1358), Lord of Elche, Biel and Bolsa, married in 1355 to Isabel Núñez de Lara (daughter of Juan Núñez III de Lara) and was killed by order of his cousin Pedro of Castile. Ancestors Notes Sources Diccionario universal de historia y de geografía, p. 152. By Lucas Alamán, Manuel Orozco y Berra External links 1299 births 1336 deaths 14th-century Aragonese monarchs Nobility from Naples Valencian monarchs Counts of Barcelona House of Aragon Aragonese infantes
Alphons (Latinized Alphonsus, Adelphonsus, or Adefonsus) is a male given name recorded from the 8th century (Alfonso I of Asturias, r. 739–757) in the Christian successor states of the Visigothic kingdom in the Iberian peninsula. In the later medieval period it became a standard name in the Hispanic and Portuguese royal families. It is derived from a Gothic name, or a conflation of several Gothic names; from *Aþalfuns, composed of the elements aþal "noble" and funs "eager, brave, ready", and perhaps influenced by names such as *Alafuns, *Adefuns and *Hildefuns. It is recorded as Adefonsus in the 9th and 10th century, and as Adelfonsus, Adelphonsus in the 10th to 11th. The reduced form Alfonso is recorded in the late 9th century, and the Portuguese form Afonso from the early 11th and Anfós in Catalan from the 12th century until the 15th. Variants of the name include: Alonso (Spanish), Alfonso (Spanish and Italian), Alfons (Dutch, German, Catalan, Polish, Croatian and Scandinavian), Afonso (Portuguese and Galician), Alphonse, Alfonse (Italian, French and English), etc. Middle Ages Iberian royal families Asturias/Leon/Castile/Spain Alfonso I of Asturias (739-757) Alfonso II of Asturias (791-842) Alfonso III of León (866-910) Alfonso Fróilaz (925-926) Alfonso IV of León (925-931) Alfonso V of León (999-1028) Alfonso VI of León (1065–1109) Alfonso VII of León (1126–1157) Alfonso VIII of Castile (1158–1214) Alfonso IX of León (1188–1230) Alfonso X of Castile (1252–1284) Alfonso XI of Castile (1312–1350) Aragon & Naples Alfonso I of Aragon (1104–1134), known as el Batallador (The Battler) Alfonso II of Aragon (1162–1196) Alfonso III of Aragon (1285–1291) Alfonso IV of Aragon (1327–1336) Alfonso V of Aragon (1416–1458), also king of Naples and Sicily Alfonso II of Naples (1448–1495) Other Alfonso Jordan (1103–1148) Alphonse, Count of Poitiers (1220–1271) Alfonso of Valladolid (c. 1270 – c. 1347), Jewish convert to Christianity, philosopher, and mathematician Alphonso, Earl of Chester (1273–1284), first son of Edward I of England, named after his godfather Alfonso X of Castile; died in childhood Juan Alfonso de Baena (c. 1375 – c. 1434), Castilian troubadour Early modern period Alphonse Daudet, French novelist and historian Alfonso I d'Este, Duke of Ferrara during the time of the War of the League of Cambrai Alphonse de Tonty, Baron de Paludy (c. 1659 – 1727) Alfonso II d'Este, Duke of Ferrara from 1559 to 1597 Alfonso II, Count of Provence, second son of Alfonso II of Aragon Alfonso III d'Este, Duke of Modena and Reggio (1628–44) Alfonso of Castile, Prince of Asturias, figurehead of rebelling magnates against his brother King Henry IV of Castile Alfonso of Hauteville, Prince of Capua Alphonsus Liguori, Roman Catholic theologian (1696–1787) Joseph-Alphonse Esménard (1770–1811) Modern period Iberian/Sicilian nobility Prince Alfonso, Count of Caserta (1841–1934), duke of Calabria and head of the royal house of the Two Sicilies Alfonso XII of Spain (1857–1885) (ordinal numbering continues from the kings of Castile) Alfonso XIII of Spain (1886–1931) Infante Alfonso, Duke of Calabria, claimant to the title of the head of House of Bourbon Two Sicilies Alfonso of Spain, Prince of Asturias, heir-apparent of the throne of Spain 1907–31 Prince Alfonso of Hohenlohe-Langenburg (1924–2003), Spanish playboy and businessman Infante Alfonso of Spain, younger brother of former King Juan Carlos of Spain Fadrique Alfonso of Castile, fifth illegitimate child of Alfonso XI of Castile Alfons Alfons Almi (1904-1991), Finnish opera singer and administrator Alfons van Blaaderen (born 1963), Dutch physicist Alfons Geleyns (1887-1914), Belgian private Alfons Goppel (1905–1991), German politician Alfons Gorbach (1898–1972), Austrian politician Alfons Jēgers (1919–1999), Latvian football and hockey player Alfons Karpiński (1875–1961), Polish painter Alfons Rebane (1908–1976), Estonian military commander Alfons Rissberger (born 1948), German author Alphonse Alphonse Gabriel Capone (1899-1947), Chicago gangster Alfonso Alfonso Cuarón, Mexican cinematographer Alfonso Calderon (activist), Spanish born activist and advocate for gun control Alfonso Calderón (poet), Chilean poet and writer Alfonso Soriano, American baseball player Alfonso Lizarazo, Colombian host and politician Alfonso Mejia-Arias, Mexican musician, writer, social activist and politician of Roma origin (Gitano) Alfonso Ribeiro, Caribbean-American actor and game show host. Alfonso John Romero, American video-game designer, programmer, and developer Alfonso Pérez, Spanish football (soccer) striker Alfonso Oiterong, Palauan statesman, former Palau vice president 1981-1985 Alicia Alfonso (born 1963), Uruguayan actress Giovanni Alfonso Borelli, Italian physiologist and physicist José Alfonso Belloso y Sánchez (1873–1938), Archbishop of San Salvador, El Salvador Miguel Alfonso Pérez Aracil, Spanish football (soccer) midfielder Alfonse Alfonse D'Amato (born 1937), United States Senator from New York Abraham Alfonse Albert Gallatin (1761–1849), Swiss-American politician Alphonse Mucha (1860-1939), Czech artist Alphonso Alphonso Davies, Canadian soccer player born in Ghana, who grew up in Edmonton As a surname Alphonse, Alphonso, Alfonso is occasionally seen as a surname derived from the given name, the latter descending from Asturias and Cantabria. Celestino Alfonso (1916-1944), Spanish republican and volunteer fighter in the French resistance during World War II Roland Alphonso (1931–1998), Jamaican saxophonist Kristian Alfonso (born 1963), Puerto Rican American soap opera actress Michael Lee Alfonso (1965-2007), ring name "Mike Awesome", American professional wrestler Equis Alfonso, known as X-Alfonso, Cuban hip-hop and afro-rock musician Ozzie Alfonso, Cuban-American TV director and producer Sadda Vidda Rajapakse Palanga Pathira Ambakumarage Ranjan Leo Sylvester Alphonsu, Sri Lankan Sinhala politician, actor, singer, writer Pseudonym Bill Alfonso, ring name of William Matthew Sierra, former professional wrestling referee & manager Stage name Alfons, the stage name of Emmanuel Peterfalvi, a French comedian Fictional characters Alphonso, protagonist in Alfonso und Estrella, an opera by Franz Schubert Don Alfonso, character in Mozart's opera Così fan tutte Alphonso MacKenzie, fictional character in the Marvel Universe Alfie Atkins, known as Alfons Åberg in Swedish, character created by Gunilla Bergström from Sweden Alfonzo Dominico Jones, a dog in the Australian television series SeaChange Alphonse "Big Boy" Caprice, character in the comic strip Dick Tracy Alphonse and Gaston, French duo in a comic strip created by Frederick Burr Opper Alphonse Elric from Fullmetal Alchemist Alphonse Mephisto, fictional character in the animated television series South Park Alfons Heiderich from Fullmetal Alchemist the Movie: Conqueror of Shamballa Alphonso Ali, minor character in Bloom County Monsieur Alfonse, character in the BBC sitcom Allo 'Allo! played by the actor Kenneth Connor The name of a number of pets and the Patlabor of Noa Izumi from the anime Patlabor Oren Pierre Alfonso from Kamen Rider Gaim Alfonso "French" Sosa, a main character from The OA See also Afonso Ildefonso (disambiguation) References Italian masculine given names Masculine given names Spanish masculine given names Portuguese masculine given names
Alfonso I may refer to: Alfonso I of Asturias (739–757), king of Asturias Afonso I of Portugal (1094–1185), king of Portugal Alfonso I of Aragon (1104–1134), known as Alfonso the Battler, king of Aragon and Navarre Alfonso I, Duke of Gandia (1332–1412) Alfonso V of Aragon (1396–1458), king of Naples as Alfonso I Afonso I of Kongo (1456–1543), first Christian king of the Kingdom of Kongo Alfonso I Piccolomini (1468–1498), duke of Amalfi Alfonso I d'Este, Duke of Ferrara (1476–1534) Alfonso XIII of Spain (1886–1941), known to French Legitimists as "Alphonse I"
Alfonso II may refer to: Alfonso II of Asturias (791–842) Alfonso II of Aragon (1162–1196) Alfonso II, Count of Provence (1174–1209) Afonso II of Portugal (1185–1223), "the Fat" Alfonso, Count of Poitou (1220–1271), jure uxoris Alfonso II, Count of Toulouse Alfonso II, Duke of Gandia (–1422) Alfonso II of Naples (1448–1495) Alfonso II Piccolomini (1499–1559), Neapolitan nobleman and military leader Alfonso II d'Este (1533–1597), duke of Ferrara de:Liste der Herrscher namens Alfons#Alfons II.
Alfonso III may refer to: Alfonso III of Asturias (866–910), surnamed "the Great" Afonso III of Portugal (1210–1279) Alfonso III of Aragon (1285–1291) Alfonso III d'Este, Duke of Modena and Reggio (1628–1644) Alfonso III of Kongo (1666–1667)
Alfonso IV may refer to: Alfonso IV of León (924–931) Afonso IV of Portugal (1291–1357) Alfonso IV of Aragon (1327–1336) Alfonso IV of Ribagorza (1332–1412) Alfonso IV d'Este (1634–1662), Duke of Modena and Regg
Ambergris ( or , , ), ambergrease, or grey amber is a solid, waxy, flammable substance of a dull grey or blackish colour produced in the digestive system of sperm whales. Freshly produced ambergris has a marine, fecal odor. It acquires a sweet, earthy scent as it ages, commonly likened to the fragrance of isopropyl alcohol without the vaporous chemical astringency. Ambergris has been highly valued by perfume makers as a fixative that allows the scent to last much longer, although it has been mostly replaced by synthetic ambroxide. Dogs are attracted to the smell of ambergris and are sometimes used by ambergris searchers. Etymology The English word amber derives from the Arabic word (ultimately from Middle Persian ambar, also ambergris), via Middle Latin ambar and Middle French ambre. The word "amber," in its sense of "ambergris," was adopted in Middle English in the 14th century. The word "ambergris" comes from the Old French "ambre gris" or "grey amber". The addition of "grey" came about when, in the Romance languages, the sense of the word "amber" was extended to Baltic amber (fossil resin), as white or yellow amber (ambre jaune), from as early as the late 13th century. This fossilized resin became the dominant (and now exclusive) sense of "amber", leaving "ambergris" as the word for the whale secretion. The archaic alternate spelling "ambergrease" arose as an eggcorn from the phonetic pronunciation of "ambergris," encouraged by the substance's waxy texture. Formation Ambergris is formed from a secretion of the bile duct in the intestines of the sperm whale, and can be found floating on the sea or washed up on coastlines. It is sometimes found in the abdomens of dead sperm whales. Because the beaks of giant squids have been discovered within lumps of ambergris, scientists have theorized that the substance is produced by the whale's gastrointestinal tract to ease the passage of hard, sharp objects that it may have eaten. Ambergris is passed like fecal matter. It is speculated that an ambergris mass too large to be passed through the intestines is expelled via the mouth, but this remains under debate. Another theory states that an ambergris mass is formed when the colon of a whale is enlarged by a blockage from intestinal worms and cephalopod parts resulting in the death of the whale and the mass being excreted into the sea. Ambergris takes years to form. Christopher Kemp, the author of Floating Gold: A Natural (and Unnatural) History of Ambergris, says that it is only produced by sperm whales, and only by an estimated one percent of them. Ambergris is rare; once expelled by a whale, it often floats for years before making landfall. The slim chances of finding ambergris and the legal ambiguity involved led perfume makers away from ambergris, and led chemists on a quest to find viable alternatives. Ambergris is found primarily in the Atlantic Ocean and on the coasts of South Africa; Brazil; Madagascar; the East Indies; The Maldives; China; Japan; India; Australia; New Zealand; and the Molucca Islands. Most commercially collected ambergris comes from The Bahamas in the Atlantic, particularly New Providence. In 2021, fishermen found a 127 kg (280-pound) piece of ambergris off the coast of Yemen, valued at US$1.5 million. Fossilised ambergris from 1.75 million years ago has also been found. Physical properties Ambergris is found in lumps of various shapes and sizes, usually weighing from to or more. When initially expelled by or removed from the whale, the fatty precursor of ambergris is pale white in color (sometimes streaked with black), soft, with a strong fecal smell. Following months to years of photodegradation and oxidation in the ocean, this precursor gradually hardens, developing a dark grey or black color, a crusty and waxy texture, and a peculiar odor that is at once sweet, earthy, marine, and animalic. Its scent has been generally described as a vastly richer and smoother version of isopropanol without its stinging harshness. In this developed condition, ambergris has a specific gravity ranging from 0.780 to 0.926 (meaning it floats in water). It melts at about to a fatty, yellow resinous liquid; and at it is volatilised into a white vapor. It is soluble in ether, and in volatile and fixed oils. Chemical properties Ambergris is relatively nonreactive to acid. White crystals of a terpenoid known as ambrein, discovered by Ružička and Fernand Lardon in 1946, can be separated from ambergris by heating raw ambergris in alcohol, then allowing the resulting solution to cool. Breakdown of the relatively scentless ambrein through oxidation produces ambroxide and ambrinol, the main odor components of ambergris. Ambroxide is now produced synthetically and used extensively in the perfume industry. Applications Ambergris has been mostly known for its use in creating perfume and fragrance much like musk. Perfumes can still be found with ambergris. Ambergris has historically been used in food and drink. A serving of eggs and ambergris was reportedly King Charles II of England's favorite dish. A recipe for Rum Shrub liqueur from the mid 19th century called for a thread of ambergris to be added to rum, almonds, cloves, cassia, and the peel of oranges in making a cocktail from The English and Australian Cookery Book. It has been used as a flavoring agent in Turkish coffee and in hot chocolate in 18th century Europe. The substance is considered an aphrodisiac in some cultures. Ancient Egyptians burned ambergris as incense, while in modern Egypt ambergris is used for scenting cigarettes. The ancient Chinese called the substance "dragon's spittle fragrance". During the Black Death in Europe, people believed that carrying a ball of ambergris could help prevent them from contracting plague. This was because the fragrance covered the smell of the air which was believed to be a cause of plague. During the Middle Ages, Europeans used ambergris as a medication for headaches, colds, epilepsy, and other ailments. Legality From the 18th to the mid-19th century, the whaling industry prospered. By some reports, nearly 50,000 whales, including sperm whales, were killed each year. Throughout the 1800s, "millions of whales were killed for their oil, whalebone, and ambergris" to fuel profits, and they soon became endangered as a species as a result. Due to studies showing that the whale populations were being threatened, the International Whaling Commission instituted a moratorium on commercial whaling in 1982. Although ambergris is not harvested from whales, many countries also ban the trade of ambergris as part of the more general ban on the hunting and exploitation of whales. Urine, faeces, and ambergris (that has been naturally excreted by a sperm whale) are waste products not considered parts or derivatives of a CITES species and are therefore not covered by the provisions of the convention. Illegal Australia – Under federal law, the export and import of ambergris for commercial purposes is banned by the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999. The various states and territories have additional laws regarding ambergris. United States – The possession and trade of ambergris is prohibited by the Endangered Species Act of 1973. India – Sale or possession is illegal under the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972. Legal United Kingdom France Switzerland Maldives References Further reading montalvoeascinciasdonossotempo.blogspot, accessed 21 August 2015 External links Natural History Magazine Article (from 1933): Floating Gold – The Romance of Ambergris Ambergris – A Pathfinder and Annotated Bibliography On the chemistry and ethics of Ambergris Pathologist finds €500,000 ‘floating gold’ in dead whale in Canary Islands Perfume ingredients Whale products Animal glandular products Natural products Traditional medicine
Ambiorix (Gaulish "king of the surroundings", or "king-protector") ( 54–53 BC) was, together with Cativolcus, prince of the Eburones, leader of a Belgic tribe of north-eastern Gaul (Gallia Belgica), where modern Belgium is located. In the nineteenth century Ambiorix became a Belgian national hero because of his resistance against Julius Caesar, as written in Caesar's Commentarii de Bello Gallico. Name It is generally accepted that Ambiorix is a Gaulish personal name formed with the prefix ambio- attached to rix ('king'), but the meaning of the first element is debated. Some scholars translate Ambiorix as the 'king of the surroundings' or 'king of the enclosure', by interpreting ambio- as a thematized form of ambi- ('around, on both sides') meaning 'surroundings' or else 'enclosure' (cf. Old Irish imbe 'enclosure'). Alternatively, Fredrik Otto Lindeman renders Ambiorix as the 'protector-king', by deriving ambio- from the Proto-Indo-European compound ('protector'; cf. Old Indic adhi-pá- 'protector, ruler, master, king'). Biography Early history In 57 BC Julius Caesar conquered parts of Gaul and also Belgica (Belgium, modern-day Northern France, Luxembourg, part of present-day Netherlands below the Rhine River; and the north-western portion of North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany). There were several tribes in the country who fought against each other frequently. The Eburones were ruled by Ambiorix and Catuvolcus. In 54 BC Caesar's troops urgently needed more food, and so the local tribes were forced to give up part of their harvest, which had not been good that year. Understandably the starving Eburones were reluctant to do so and Caesar ordered that camps be built near the Eburones' villages. Each centurion was ordered to make sure the food supplies were delivered to the Roman soldiers. This created resentment among the Eburones. Although Julius Caesar had freed him from paying tribute to the Atuatuci, Ambiorix joined Catuvolcus in the winter of 54 BC in an uprising against the Roman forces under Quintus Titurius Sabinus and Lucius Aurunculeius Cotta. Resisting the Romans Because a drought had disrupted his grain supply, Caesar was forced to winter his legions among the rebellious Belgic tribes. Roman troops led by Sabinus and Cotta were wintering among the Eburones when they were attacked by them, led by Ambiorix and Cativolcus. Ambiorix deceived the Romans, telling them the attack was made without his consent, and further advised them to flee as a large Germanic force was preparing to cross the Rhine. Trusting Ambiorix, Sabinus and Cotta's troops left the next morning. A short distance from their camp, the Roman troops were ambushed by the Eburones and massacred. Elsewhere, another Roman force under Quintus Tullius Cicero, younger brother of the orator Marcus, were wintering amongst the Nervii. Leading a coalition of rebellious Belgic tribes, Ambiorix surrounded Cicero's camp. After a long while, a Roman messenger was finally able to slip through the Belgic lines and get word of the uprising to Caesar. Mobilizing his legions, Caesar immediately marched to Cicero's aid. As they approached the besieged Roman camp, the Belgae moved to engage Caesar's troops. Vastly outnumbered, Caesar ordered his troops to appear confused and frightened, and they successfully lured the Belgae to attack them on ground favourable to the Romans. Caesar's forces launched a fierce counterattack, and soon put the Belgae to flight. Later, Caesar's troops entered Cicero's camp to find most of the men wounded. Meanwhile, Indutiomarus, a leader of the Treveri, began to harass Labienus's camp daily, eventually provoking Labienus to send out his cavalry with specific orders to kill Indutiomarus. They did so, and routed the remnants of Indutiomarus's army. Caesar personally remained in Gaul for the remainder of winter due to the renewed Gallic threat. Caesar's revenge When the Roman senate heard what had happened, Caesar swore to destroy all the Belgic tribes. Ambiorix had killed fifteen cohorts. A Belgic attack on Cicero, then stationed with a legion in the territory of the Nervii, failed due to the timely appearance of Caesar. The Roman campaigns against the Belgae took a few years, but eventually the tribes were slaughtered or driven out and their fields burned. The Eburones disappeared from history after this genocidal event. According to the writer Florus, Ambiorix and his men succeeded in escaping across the Rhine. They do not appear in Roman records after this point. Legacy Caesar wrote about Ambiorix in his commentary about his battles against the Gauls, De Bello Gallico. In this text he also famously wrote: "Of these [three regions], the Belgae are the bravest." ("... Horum omnium fortissimi sunt Belgae ..."). Ambiorix remained a relatively obscure figure until the nineteenth century. The independence of Belgium in 1830 spurred a search for national heroes. In Caesar's De Bello Gallico, Ambiorix and his deeds were rediscovered. In 1841, the Belgian poet Joannes Nolet de Brauwere Van Steeland wrote a lyrical epic about Ambiorix. Furthermore, on September 5, 1866, a statue of Ambiorix was erected on the main market square in Tongeren, Belgium, referred to by Caesar as Atuatuca, i.e. Atuatuca Tungrorum. Today, Ambiorix is one of the most famous characters in Belgian history. Many companies, bars and friteries have named themselves after him, and in many Belgian comics such as Suske en Wiske and Jommeke he plays a guest role. There was also a short-lived comic called Ambionix, which featured a scientist teleporting a Belgic chief, loosely based on Ambiorix, to modern-day Belgium. In the French comic Asterix, in the album Asterix in Belgium, Asterix, Obelix, Dogmatix and Vitalstatistix go to Belgium because they are angry with Caesar about his remark that the Belgians are the bravest of all the Gauls. In popular culture Ambiorix leads the Gallic civilization in the New Frontier season pass of the 4X video game Civilization VI. References Bibliography Primary sources Caesar, De Bello Gallico v. 26–51, vi. 29–43, viii. 24; Dio Cassius xl. 7-11; Florus iii. 10. External links Ambiorix 1st-century BC monarchs in Europe Belgae Celtic warriors 1st-century BC Gaulish tribal chiefs Early Germanic warriors Barbarian people of the Gallic Wars
August Wilhelm Ambros (17 November 181628 June 1876) was an Austrian composer and music historian of Czech descent. Life He was born in Mýto, Rokycany District, Bohemia. His father was a cultured man, and his mother was the sister of Raphael Georg Kiesewetter (1773–1850), the musical archaeologist and collector. Ambros studied at the University of Prague and was well-educated in music and the arts, which were his abiding passion. He was, however, destined for the law and an official career in the Austrian civil service, and from 1839 he occupied various important posts under the ministry of justice, music being an avocation. From 1850 onwards, he became well known as a critic and essay-writer, and in 1860 he began working on his magnum opus, his History of Music, which was published at intervals from 1862 in five volumes, the last two (1878, 1882) being edited and completed by Otto Kade and Wilhelm Langhans. Ambros was a professor of the history of music at Prague from 1869 to 1871. Also in Prague, he sat on the board of governors in the Prague Royal Conservatory. By 1872, he was living in Vienna and was employed by the Department of Justice as an officer and by Prince Rudolf's family as his tutor. Through his work in Vienna, he was given a leave of absence for half the year in order to let him travel the world to collect musical information to include in his History of Music book. He was an excellent pianist, and the author of numerous compositions reminiscent of Felix Mendelssohn. Ambros died at Vienna, Austria at the age of 59. Notes 1816 births 1876 deaths People from Mýto 19th-century Austrian musicians 19th-century Austrian male musicians 19th-century classical composers 19th-century Czech musicians Austrian classical composers Austrian male classical composers Austrian people of German Bohemian descent Charles University alumni Czech male classical composers German Bohemian people Czech Romantic composers Josquin scholars 19th-century musicologists
Autpert Ambrose (Ambroise) () (ca. 730 – 784) was a Frankish Benedictine monk. An abbot of San Vincenzo al Volturno in South Italy in the time of Desiderius, king of the Lombards, Autpert wrote a considerable number of works on the Bible and religious subjects generally. Among these are commentaries on the Apocalypse, on the Psalms, and on the Song of Songs; a life of the founders of the monastery of San Vincenzo (); and a Conflictus vitiorum et virtutum (Combat between the Virtues and the Vices). Jean Mabillon calls him "sanctissimus" because of his great virtue and the Bollandists gave him the title "saint". His cultus has been approved. Biography Autpert Ambrose was born in Gaul, probably Provence, at the beginning of the eighth century. He moved to Italy and entered the Benedictine monastery of San Vincenzo al Volturno, near Benevento, in Southern Italy, where he received his intellectual and spiritual formation and was ordained a priest sometime before 761. He became abbot on 4 October 777. In 774 Charlemagne had defeated the Lombards, but had not subjugated the Duchy of Benevento: Autpert's election aggravated the disputes between French and Lombard monks, and on 28 December 778 he was forced to leave the monastery to the Lombard Poto and flee to Spoleto. Summoned to Rome by Charlemagne to resolve the conflict, he died on the way, perhaps murdered, in 784. Information about his life is available primarily from the fragmentary Chronicon Vulturnense written by a monk named John, and from brief autobiographical references in some of his own writings. The same chronicle places him in the court of Charlemagne. This is apparently an error due to the confusion of Autpert with a certain Aspertus or Asbertus, who was chancellor of Prince Arnolfus from 888 to 892. In 2009, Pope Benedict XVI gave a homily about him in Saint Peter's square. In this homily, Autpert's death date is given as 784 (older scholarship had given a date between 778 and 779). Works Autpert’s most famous work is his lengthy Expositio in Apocalypsin which is dependent upon a variety of patristic authors whom Autpert explicitly acknowledges, including Jerome, Victorinus, Ticonius, Augustine of Hippo, Primasius of Hadrumetum, and Gregory the Great. In fact, this commentary is one of the sources for a partial reconstruction of the lost Apocalypse commentary of the Donatist Ticonius. It is prefaced by a letter to Pope Stephen III in which Autpert defends himself from his detractors. His Vita sanctorum patrum Paldonis, Tatonis et Tasonis is an account of the three founders of the monastery at Volturno who through their pious lives offer an example of the imitation of Christ. His Libellus de conflictu vitiorum atque virtutum emphasizes monastic themes such as fear of God, obedience, and fidelity. Other works include Oratio contra septem vitia, Sermo de cupiditate, Sermo in purificatione sanctae Mariae, Homilia de transfiguratione Domini, and Sermo de adsumptione sanctae Mariae. Several additional sermons, known to have existed, have not survived. His extant sermons are marked by a strong mystical imprint. His commentaries on Leviticus, the Song of Songs, and the Psalms, mentioned in the Chronicon Vulturnese, are also not extant. Whether or not Autpert is the author of the hymn Ave maris stella is debated. The reason for this possible attribution is that Mary plays a significant theological role in both his sermons and Apocalypse commentary. She is not only a figure of the Church but also its most excellent member. As mother of Christ, she is also mother of the elect. Expositio in Apocalypsin Autpert's masterpiece is considered his Expositio in Apocalypsin, a lenghty commentary on the Book of Revelation. Autpert refers to various early Christian writers in order to give his commentary authority. In addition, he uses the writers to correct heresy where he believed it to exist. Although he is very careful not to depart from the tradition of the Church or from orthodox teaching, his work is no mere string of patristic quotations. Throughout his Apocalypse commentary Christ is mystically identified with the Church, so much so that the Church actually begins with the birth of Christ. In addition, there is only one Church in heaven and on earth, not two. To those knowing the truth there is manifest one and the same Church, neither divided nor separated, which reigns with Christ in heaven, encompassing those members who have completed their struggle, and which reigns with Christ on earth, encompassing those members who continue in battle. The first resurrection (cf. Rev. 20:5b–6a), which implies a second, refers to the reign of Christ for a thousand years and the reign of the just with him. The second resurrection refers not to the resurrection of the flesh from dust but rather to the life of the soul rising from the abandonment of sin. The second death (cf. Rev. 20:6b) is eternal damnation. Gog and Magog (cf. Rev. 20:8) refer to the nations all over the earth which are agents of the devil persecuting the Church. The book of life (cf. Rev. 20:12) is the Old and New Testament, whose contemplation brings the elect to the light of day and the love of neighbour. The city of God continuously grows in number through the washing and regeneration of the Holy Spirit, and at the end of the present age the Last Judgment of God will come through his son Jesus Christ. References Bibliography Paul the Deacon, Historia Langobardorum, VI, 40, in Monumenta Germaniae Historica in usum scholarum, Hannoverae 1878, p. 231. External links Works of Ambrosius Autpertus at the National Library of Portugal 730s births 784 deaths Frankish Benedictines Year of birth uncertain 8th-century Frankish writers 8th-century writers in Latin Roman Catholic writers
Ambrogio Traversari, also referred to as Ambrose of Camaldoli (138620 October 1439), was an Italian monk and theologian who was a prime supporter of the papal cause in the 15th century. He is honored as a saint by the Camaldolese Order. Biography Traversari was born near Forlì, in the village of Portico di Romagna in 1386. At the age of 14 he entered the Camaldolese Order in the Monastery of St. Mary of the Angels in Florence, and soon acquired a reputation as a leading theologian and Hellenist. In his study of Greek literature his master was Emmanuel Chrysoloras. Traversari worked primarily as a scholar until he became prior general of the Order in 1431. Traversari emerged as a leading advocate of papal primacy. This attitude he showed clearly when he attended the Council of Basel as legate of Pope Eugene IV and defended the primacy of the pope, calling upon the council not to "rend asunder Christ's seamless robe". He was next sent by Eugene to the Emperor Sigismund to ask his aid in the pope's efforts to end this council, which for five years had been encroaching on papal prerogatives. Eugene transferred the council from Basel to Ferrara on 18 September 1437. So strong was Traversari's hostility to some of the delegates that he described Basel as a western Babylon. He likewise supported the pope at Ferrara and Florence, and worked hard in the attempt to reconcile the Eastern and Western Churches. But in this council, and later, in that of Florence, Traversari, by his efforts and charity toward some indigent Greek bishops, greatly helped to bring about a union of the two Churches, the decree for which, 6 July 1439, he was called on to prepare a draft. Ambrose Traversari died soon after. His feastday is celebrated by the Camaldolese Order on 20 November. Character According to the author of his biography in the eleventh edition of the Encyclopædia Britannica: "Ambrose is interesting as typical of the new humanism which was growing up within the church. Thus while among his own colleagues he seemed merely a hypocritical and arrogant priest, in his relations with his brother humanists, such as Cosimo de' Medici, he appeared as the student of classical antiquities and especially of Greek theological authors". Works His works include a treatise on the Holy Eucharist, one on the Procession of the Holy Spirit, many lives of saints, as well as a history of his term as prior general of the Camaldolese. He also translated from Greek into Latin a life of John Chrysostom (Venice, 1533); the Spiritual Wisdom of John Moschus; The Ladder of Divine Ascent of John Climacus (Venice, 1531), P.G., LXXXVIII. Between 1424 and 1433 he worked on the translation of the Lives and Opinions of Eminent Philosophers by Diogenes Laërtius, which came to be widely circulated in manuscript form. He also translated four books against the errors of the Greeks, by Manuel Kalekas, Patriarch of Constantinople, a Dominican friar (Ingolstadt, 1608), P.G., CLII, col. 13-661, a work known only through Ambrose's translation. He also translated many homilies of John Chrysostom; the writings of Dionysius Areopagita (1436); Basil of Caesarea's treatise on virginity; thirty-nine discourses of Ephrem the Syrian, and many other works of the Fathers and writers of the Greek Church. Dom Mabillon's Letters and Orations of St. Ambrose of Camaldoli was published in Florence in 1759. Selected works: Hodoeporicon, diary of a journey visiting the monasteries of Italy Epistolarium, correspondence translations of Palladius, Life of Chrysostom Ephraem Syrus, Nineteen Sermons of Ephraem Syrus Basil of Caesarea, On Virginity Diogenes Laërtius, Vitae philosophorum (Lives and Opinions of Eminent Philosophers) Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite (1436) A number of his manuscripts remain in the library of Saint Mark in Venice. See also Traversari The Baptism of Christ (Piero della Francesca) References Attribution Further reading External links Letters – a few letters in the original Latin and a portrait of him from a manuscript he copied. Contains short biography 1386 births 1439 deaths People from Portico e San Benedetto 14th-century Christian saints 15th-century Christian saints 15th-century Italian Roman Catholic theologians Camaldolese saints Medieval Italian saints Italian Benedictines Benedictine saints Benedictine scholars Benedictine theologians 15th-century Italian Roman Catholic priests Greek–Latin translators 15th-century Italian writers Italian Renaissance humanists
Ambrosians are members of one of the religious brotherhoods which at various times since the 14th century have sprung up in and around Milan, Italy. In the 16th century, a sect of Anabaptist Ambrosians was founded. Orders Only the oldest of the Catholic Ambrosians, the Fratres S. Ambrosii ad Nemus, had anything more than a very local significance. This order is known from a bull of Pope Gregory XI addressed to the monks of the church of St Ambrose outside Milan. Saint Ambrose, Bishop of Milan, certainly did not found religious orders, though he took an interest in the monastic life and watched over its beginnings in his diocese, providing for the needs of a monastery outside the walls of Milan, as Saint Augustine recounts in his Confessions. Ambrose also made successful efforts to improve the moral life of women in the Milan of his time by promoting the permanent institution of Virgins, as also of widows. His exhortations and other interventions have survived in various writings: De virginibus, De viduis, De virginitate, De institutione virginis, De exhortatione virginitatis, and De lapsu virginis consecratae. Ambrose was the only Father of the Church to leave behind so many writings on the subject and his attentions naturally enough led to the formation of communities which later became formal monasteries of women. It is against this background that two religious orders or congregations—one of men and one of women, when founded in the Milan area during the 13th and 15th centuries—took Saint Ambrose as their patron and hence adopted his name. Order of St Ambrose The first of these groups was formed in a wood outside Milan by three noble Milanese, Alexander Grivelli, Antonio Petrasancta, and Albert Besuzzi, who were joined by others, including some priests. In 1375 Pope Gregory XI gave them the Rule of St Augustine, with set of constitutions. As a canonically recognized order they took the name "Fratres Sancti Ambrosii ad Nemus" and adopted a habit consisting of a brown tunic, scapular, and hood. The brethren elected a superior with the title of prior who was then instituted by the Archbishop of Milan. The priests of the congregation undertook preaching and other tasks of the ministry but were not allowed to accept charge parishes. In the liturgy they followed the Ambrosian Rite. Various monasteries were founded on these lines, but without any formal bond between them. In 1441 Pope Eugene IV merged them into one congregation called "Congregatio Sancti Ambrosii ad Nemus", made the original house the main seat, and laid down a system of government whereby a general chapter met every three years, elected the priors who stayed in office till the next chapter. There was a rector, or superior general, who was assisted by two "visitors". Saint Charles Borromeo, Archbishop of Milan, successfully reformed their discipline, grown lax, in 1579. In 1589 Pope Sixtus V united to the Congregation of St Ambrose the monasteries of a group known as the "Brothers of the Apostles of the Poor Life" (or "Apostolini" or "Brothers of St. Barnabas"), whose houses were in the province of Genoa and in the March of Ancona. This was an order that had been founded by Giovanni Scarpa at the end of the 15th century. The union was confirmed by Pope Paul V in 1606, at which time the congregation added the name of St. Barnabas to its title, adopted new constitutions, divided its houses into four provinces, two of them, St Clement's and St Pancras's, being in Rome. Published works have survived from the pen of Ascanio Tasca and Michele Mulozzani, each of whom was superior-general, and of Zaccaria Visconti, Francesco-Maria Guazzi and Paolo Fabulotti. Although various Ambrosians were given the title of Blessed in recognition of their holiness: Antonio Gonzaga of Mantua, Filippo of Fermo, and Gerardo of Monza, the order was eventually dissolved by Pope Innocent X in 1650. Nuns The Nuns of St Ambrose (Ambrosian Sisters) wore a habit of the same colour as the Brothers of St Ambrose, conformed to their constitutions, and followed the Ambrosian Rite, but were independent in government. Pope Sixtus IV gave the nuns canonical status in 1474. Their one monastery was on the top of Monte Varese, near Lago Maggiore, on the spot where their foundress, the Blessed Catarina Morigia (or Catherine of Palanza), had first led a solitary life. Other early nuns were the Blessed Juliana of Puriselli, Benedetta Bimia, and Lucia Alciata. The nuns were esteemed by St Charles Borromeo. Another group of cloistered "Nuns of St Ambrose", also called the Annunciatae (Italian: Annunziate) of Lombardy or "Sisters of St Marcellina", were founded in 1408 by three young women of Pavia, Dorothea Morosini, Eleonora Contarini, and Veronica Duodi. Their houses, scattered throughout Lombardy and Venetia, were united into a congregation by St Pius V, under the Rule of St Augustine with a mother-house, residence of the prioress general, at Pavia. One of the nuns in this group was Saint Catharine Fieschi Adorno, who died on September 14, 1510. Oblates of St. Ambrose and of St. Charles In some sense also "Ambrosians" are the members of a diocesan religious society founded by St Charles Borromeo, Archbishop of Milan. All priests or destined to become priests, they took a simple vow of obedience to their bishop. The model for this was a society that already existed at Brescia, under the name of "Priests of Peace". In August 1578 the new society was inaugurated, being entrusted with the church of the Holy Sepulchre and given the name of "Oblates of St. Ambrose." They later received the approbation of Gregory XIII. St Charles died in 1584. These Oblates were dispersed by Napoleon I in 1810, while another group called the Oblates of Our Lady of Rho escaped this fate. In 1848 they were reorganized and given the name of "Oblates of St. Charles" and reassigned the house of the Holy Sepulchre. In the course of the 19th century similar groups were founded in a number of countries, including the "Oblates of St Charles", established in London by Cardinal Nicholas Wiseman. See also St. Ambrose University References Anabaptism Baptism Premillennialism
Ambrosiaster or Pseudo-Ambrose is the name given to the unknown author of a commentary on the epistles of Saint Paul, written some time between 366 and 384AD. The name "Ambrosiaster" in Latin means "would-be Ambrose". Various conjectures have been made as to Ambrosiaster's true identity, and several other works have been attributed to the same author, with varying degrees of certainty. Biography Pseudo-Ambrose was the name given by Erasmus to refer to the author of a volume containing the first complete Latin commentary on the Pauline epistles. Alexander Souter has established that the same author wrote the Quaestiones Veteris et Novi Testament, which had long been attributed to Saint Augustine. Other works ascribed to the same author, less definitely, are the Lex Dei sive Mosaicarum et Romanorum legum collatio, De bello judaico, and the fragmentary Contra Arianos sometimes ascribed to the pseudo-Hilary and the sermo 246 of pseudo-Augustine. They mention Simon Magus. Internal evidence from the documents has been taken to suggest that the author was active in Rome during the period of Pope Damasus, and, almost certainly, a member of the clergy. Commentary on Paul The Commentary on Thirteen Pauline Letters is considered valuable as evidence of the state of the Latin text of Paul's epistles before the appearance of the Vulgate of Jerome, and as an example of Pauline interpretation prior to Augustine of Hippo. It was traditionally ascribed to Ambrose, but in 1527, Erasmus threw doubt on the accuracy of this ascription, and the anonymous author came to be known as "Ambrosiaster". It was once thought that Erasmus coined this name; however, René Hoven, in 1969, showed that this was incorrect, and that credit should actually be given to the Maurists. Later scholars have followed Hoven in this assessment, although it has also been suggested that the name originated with Franciscus Lucas Brugensis. Attempts to identify Ambrosiaster with known authors has continued, but with no success. Because Augustine cites Ambrosiaster's commentary on Romans 5:12 under the name of "Hilary", many critics have attempted to identify Ambroasiaster with one of the many writers named "Hilary" active in the period. In 1899, Germain Morin suggested that the writer was Isaac, a converted Jew and writer of a tract on the Trinity and Incarnation, who was exiled to Spain in 378–380 and then relapsed to Judaism. Morin afterwards abandoned this theory of the authorship in favour of Decimus Hilarianus Hilarius, proconsul of Africa in 377. Alternatively, Paolo Angelo Ballerini attempted to sustain the traditional attribution of the work to Ambrose, in his complete edition of that Father's work. This is extremely problematic, though, since it would require Ambrose to have written the book before he became a bishop, and then added to it in later years, incorporating later remarks of Hilary of Poitiers on Romans. No identifications, therefore, have acquired lasting popularity with scholars, and Ambrosiaster's identity remains a mystery. Other works Several other works which now survive only as fragments have been attributed to this same author. These include a commentary on Matthew 24, and discussions on the parable of the leaven, the denial of Peter, and Jesus's arrest. In 1905, Alexander Souter established that Ambrosiaster was also the author of the Quaestiones Veteris et Novi Testamenti, a lengthy collection of exegetical and polemical tractates which manuscripts have traditionally ascribed to Augustine. Influence Many scholars argue that Ambrosiaster's works were essentially Pelagian, although this is disputed. Pelagius cited him extensively. For example, Alfred Smith argued that Pelagius' "view of Predestination he seems to have taken from Ambrosiaster. His doctrine with regard to Original Sin appears to have come from the same source". However, Augustine also made use of Ambrosiaster's commentaries. Notes Bibliography Bussières, Marie-Pierre. Ambrosiaster. Contre les Païens. Sur le destin. Texte, traduction et commentaire. Paris, Éditions du Cerfs (Sources chrétiennes 512), 2007. Moreschini, Claudio, and Enrico Norelli. 2005 "Ambrosiaster," in Early Christian Greek and Latin Literature: A Literary History. Peabody, Mass: Hendrickson Publishers. vol. 2, p. 296-98. Mundle, Wilhelm. 1919. Die Exegese der paulinischen Briefe im Kommentar des Ambrosiaster. Queis, Dietrich Traugott von, and Augustine. 1972. Ambrosiaster: Quaestiones Veteris et Novi Testamenti. Quaestio 115: De fato. Basel. Souter, Alexander. 1905. A study of Ambrosiaster. Cambridge [Eng.]: The University Press. Souter, Alexander. 1927. The earliest Latin commentaries on the Epistles of St. Paul; a study. Oxford: Clarendon Press. External links The Latin text of Ambrosiaster's Pauline commentary is included (though attributed to Ambrose) in Migne's Patrologia Latina, vol. 17, pp. 48–536. This can be found on Google Books or at Documenta Catholica Omnia. The Latin text of Quaestiones Veteris et Novi Testamenti is included in Patrologia Latina, vol. 35, available at Documenta Catholica Omnia. 4th-century Christian texts 4th-century Christian clergy 4th-century Romans 4th-century Christian theologians 4th-century writers in Latin
Ammonius Hermiae (; ; – between 517 and 526) was a Greek philosopher from Alexandria in the eastern Roman empire during Late Antiquity. A Neoplatonist, he was the son of the philosophers Hermias and Aedesia, the brother of Heliodorus of Alexandria and the grandson of Syrianus. Ammonius was a pupil of Proclus in Roman Athens, and taught at Alexandria for most of his life, having obtained a public chair in the 470s. According to Olympiodorus of Thebes's Commentaries on Plato's Gorgias and Phaedo texts, Ammonius gave lectures on the works of Plato, Aristotle, and Porphyry of Tyre, and wrote commentaries on Aristotelian works and three lost commentaries on Platonic texts. He is also the author of a text on the astrolabe published in the Catalogus Codicum Astrologorum Graecorum, and lectured on astronomy and geometry. Ammonius taught numerous Neoplatonists, including Damascius, Olympiodorus of Thebes, John Philoponus, Simplicius of Cilicia, and Asclepius of Tralles. Also among his pupils were the physician Gessius of Petra and the ecclesiastical historian Zacharias Rhetor, who became the bishop of Mytilene. As part of the persecution of pagans in the late Roman Empire, the Alexandrian school was investigated by the Roman imperial authorities; Ammonius made a compromise with the Patriarch of Alexandria, Peter III, voluntarily limiting his teaching in return for keeping his own position. This alienated a number of his colleagues and pupils, including Damascius, who nonetheless called him "the greatest commentator who ever lived" in his own Life of Isidore of Alexandria. Life Ammonius' father Hermias died when he was a child, and his mother Aedesia raised him and his brother Heliodorus in Alexandria. When they reached adulthood, Aedesia accompanied her sons to Athens where they studied under Proclus. Eventually, they returned to Alexandria where Ammonius, as head of the Neoplatonist school in the city, lectured on Plato and Aristotle for the rest of his life. According to Damascius, during the persecution of the pagans at Alexandria in the late 480s, Ammonius made concessions to the Christian authorities so that he could continue his lectures. Damascius, who scolds Ammonius for the agreement that he made, does not say what the concessions were, but it may have involved limitations on the doctrines he could teach or promote. He was still teaching in 515; Olympiodorus heard him lecture on Plato's Gorgias in that year. He was also an accomplished astronomer; he lectured on Ptolemy and is known to have written a treatise on the astrolabe. Writings Of his reputedly numerous writings, only his commentary on Aristotle's De Interpretatione survives intact. A commentary on Porphyry's Isagoge may also be his, but it is somewhat corrupt and contains later interpolations. In De Interpretatione, Ammonius contends that divine foreknowledge makes void the contingent. Like Boethius in his second Commentary and in The Consolation of Philosophy, this argument maintains the effectiveness of prayer. Ammonius cites Iamblichus, who said "knowledge is intermediate between the knower and the known, since it is the activity of the knower concerning the known." In addition, there are some notes of Ammonius' lectures written by various students which also survive: On Aristotle's Categories (anonymous writer) On Aristotle's Prior Analytics I (anonymous writer) On Aristotle's Metaphysics 1–7 (written by Asclepius) On Nicomachus' Introduction to Arithmetic (written by Asclepius) On Aristotle's Prior Analytics (written by John Philoponus) On Aristotle's Posterior Analytics (written by John Philoponus) On Aristotle's On Generation and Corruption (written by John Philoponus) On Aristotle's On the Soul (written by John Philoponus) There is Greek-language work called Life of Aristotle, which is usually ascribed to Ammonius, but "is more probable that it is the work of Joannes Philoponus, the pupil of Ammonius, to whom it is ascribed in some MSS." English translations Ammonius: On Aristotle Categories, translated by S. M. Cohen and G. B. Matthews. London and Ithaca 1992. Ammonius: On Aristotle's On Interpretation 1–8, translated by D. Blank. London and Ithaca 1996. Ammonius: On Aristotle's On Interpretation 9, with Boethius: On Aristotle's On Interpretation 9, translated by D. Blank (Ammonius) and N. Kretzmann (Boethius). London and Ithaca 1998 John Philoponus: On Aristotle On Coming-to-be and Perishing 1.1–5, translated by C. J. F. Williams. London and Ithaca 1999 John Philoponus: On Aristotle On Coming-to-be and Perishing 1.6–2.4, translated by C. J. F. Williams. London and Ithaca 1999. John Philoponus: On Aristotle On the Soul 2.1–6, translated by W. Charlton. London and Ithaca 2005 John Philoponus: On Aristotle On the Soul 2.7–12, translated by W. Charlton. London and Ithaca 2005 John Philoponus: On Aristotle On the Soul 3.1–8, translated by W. Charlton. London and Ithaca 2000 John Philoponus: On Aristotle On the Intellect (de Anima 3.4–8), translated by W. Charlton. London and Ithaca 1991. Notes References Andron, Cosmin. "Ammonios of Alexandria",The Routledge Encyclopedia of Ancient Natural Scientists, eds. Georgia Irby-Massie and Paul T. Keyser, New York: Routledge, 2008. Jones, A., Martindale, J., Morris, J. The Prosopography of the Later Roman Empire, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1992, pages 71–72. Karamanolis, George E. Plato and Aristotle in agreement? : Platonists on Aristotle from Antiochus to Porphyry, New York : Oxford University Press, 2006. Seel, Gerhard (ed.), Ammonius and the Seabattle. Texts, Commentary, and Essays, in collaboration with Jean-Pierre Schneider and Daniel Schulthess ; Ammonius on Aristotle: De interpretatione 9 (and 7, 1–17) Greek text established by A. Busse, philosophical commentary by Gerhard Seel; essays by Mario Mignucci and Gerhard Seel, Berlin: Walter de Gruyter, 2001. Sorabji, Richard. The Philosophy of the Commentators, 200–600 AD. A Sourcebook, Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 2005. Verrycken, Koenraad. The Metaphysics of Ammonius son of Hermias, in Richard Sorabji (ed.), Aristotle Transformed. The Ancient Commentators and their Influence, Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1990, p. 199-231. External links Commentaria in Aristotelem Graeca, Vol. 4 parts 2–6, Akademie der Wissenschaften, Berlin, Edita consilio et auctoritate Academiae litterarum regiae borussicae (1882). 5th-century Greek philosophers 6th-century Greek philosophers Commentators on Aristotle Commentators on Plato Roman-era students in Athens Neoplatonists in Alexandria 440s births 520s deaths 5th-century Byzantine writers 6th-century Byzantine writers 5th-century astronomers 6th-century astronomers 5th-century Byzantine scientists 6th-century Byzantine scientists 5th-century mathematicians 6th-century mathematicians Byzantine astronomers People from Alexandria Philosophers in ancient Alexandria
Ammonius Saccas (; ; 175 AD242 AD) was a Hellenistic Platonist self-taught philosopher from Alexandria, generally regarded as the precursor of Neoplatonism and/or one of its founders. He is mainly known as the teacher of Plotinus, whom he taught from 232 to 242. He was undoubtedly the most significant influence on Plotinus in his development of Neoplatonism, although little is known about his own philosophical views. Later Christian writers stated that Ammonius was a Christian, but it is now generally assumed that there was a different Ammonius of Alexandria who wrote biblical texts. Life The origins and meaning of Ammonius' cognomen, "Sakkas," are disputed. Many scholars have interpreted it as indicating he was a porter in his youth, a view supported in antiquity by Byzantine bishop Theodoret. Others have asserted that this is a misreading of "Sakkas" for "sakkophoros" (porter). Some others have connected the cognomen with the "Śākyas," an ancient ruling clan of India, claiming that Ammonius Saccas was of Indian origin. This view has both been subsequently contested and supported by more recent scholarship. Some scholars supporting Ammonius' Indian origin have also contended that this ancestry is consistent with the passion of his foremost student Plotinus for India, and helps to explain the philosophical similarities between Vedanta and neoplatonism, which many scholars attribute to Indian influence. On the other hand, scholars contesting his Indian origins, point out that Ammonius was from the Brucheion quarter of Alexandria, which was the royal quarter of the city inhabited mostly by Greeks, and that the name "Ammonius" was common to many Greeks, with a number of scholars and historians supporting a Greek origin for Ammonius. Though his name is theophoric to the deity Amun, indicating possible Egyptian origin. Most details of Ammonius' life come from the fragments left from Porphyry's writings. The most famous pupil of Ammonius Saccas was Plotinus who studied under Ammonius for eleven years. According to Porphyry, in 232, at the age of 28, Plotinus went to Alexandria to study philosophy: In his twenty-eighth year he [Plotinus] felt the impulse to study philosophy and was recommended to the teachers in Alexandria who then had the highest reputation; but he came away from their lectures so depressed and full of sadness that he told his trouble to one of his friends. The friend, understanding the desire of his heart, sent him to Ammonius, whom he had not so far tried. He went and heard him, and said to his friend, "This is the man I was looking for." From that day he stayed continually with Ammonius and acquired so complete a training in philosophy that he became eager to make acquaintance with the Persian philosophical discipline and that prevailing among the Indians. According to Porphyry, the parents of Ammonius were Christians, but upon learning Greek philosophy, Ammonius rejected his parents' religion for paganism. This conversion is contested by the Christian writers Jerome and Eusebius, who state that Ammonius remained a Christian throughout his lifetime: [Porphyry] plainly utters a falsehood (for what will not an opposer of Christians do?) when he says that ... Ammonius fell from a life of piety into heathen customs. ... Ammonius held the divine philosophy unshaken and unadulterated to the end of his life. His works yet extant show this, as he is celebrated among many for the writings which he has left. However, we are told by Longinus that Ammonius wrote nothing, and if Ammonius was the principal influence on Plotinus, then it is unlikely that Ammonius would have been a Christian. One way to explain much of the confusion concerning Ammonius is to assume that there were two people called Ammonius: Ammonius Saccas who taught Plotinus, and an Ammonius the Christian who wrote biblical texts. Another explanation might be that there was only one Ammonius but that Origen, who found the Neo-Platonist views of his teacher essential to his own beliefs about the essential nature of Christianity, chose to suppress Ammonius' choice of Paganism over Christianity. The insistence of Eusebius, Origen's pupil, and Jerome, all of whom were recognized Fathers of the Christian Church, that Ammonius Saccas had not rejected his Christian roots would be easier for Christians to accept than the assertion of Prophyry, who was a Pagan, that Ammonius had chosen Paganism over Christianity. To add to the confusion, it seems that Ammonius had two pupils called Origen: Origen the Christian, and Origen the Pagan. It is quite possible that Ammonius Saccas taught both Origens. And since there were two Origens who were accepted as contemporaries it was easy for later Christians to accept that there were two individuals named Ammonius, one a Christian and one a Pagan. Among Ammonius' other pupils there were Herennius and Cassius Longinus. Philosophy Hierocles, writing in the 5th century, states that Ammonius' fundamental doctrine was that Plato and Aristotle were in full agreement with each other: He was the first who had a godly zeal for the truth in philosophy and despised the views of the majority, which were a disgrace to philosophy. He apprehended well the views of each of the two philosophers [Plato and Aristotle] and brought them under one and the same nous and transmitted philosophy without conflicts to all of his disciples, and especially to the best of those acquainted with him, Plotinus, Origen, and their successors. According to Nemesius, a bishop and neoplatonist c. 400, Ammonius held that the soul was immaterial. Little is known about Ammonius's role in the development of neoplatonism. Porphyry seems to suggest that Ammonius was instrumental in helping Plotinus think about philosophy in new ways: But he [Plotinus] did not just speak straight out of these books but took a distinctive personal line in his consideration, and brought the mind of Ammonius' to bear on the investigation in hand. Two of Ammonius's students – Origen the Pagan, and Longinus – seem to have held philosophical positions which were closer to middle Platonism than neoplatonism, which perhaps suggests that Ammonius's doctrines were also closer to those of middle Platonism than the neoplatonism developed by Plotinus (see the Enneads), but Plotinus does not seem to have thought that he was departing in any significant way from that of his master. Like Porphyry (The Life of Plotinus, 3, 24–29), also Nemesius refers of Ammonius Saccas as the teacher or the master of Plotinus (Nemesius, Nature of Man, 2.103). See also Theodidaktos Ancient Greece–Ancient India relations Notes References Armstrong, A., (1967), The Cambridge History of Later Greek and Early Medieval Philosophy, Cambridge University Press, pp. 196–200. Karamanolis, G., (2006), Plato and Aristotle in Agreement?: Platonists on Aristotle from Antiochus to Porphyry, Oxford University Press, pp. 191–215. Reale, G., (1990), A History of Ancient Philosophy IV: The Schools of the Imperial Age, SUNY Press, pp. 297–303. External links Porphyry, Against the Christians (2004). Fragments. The Reaction to the Bible in Paganism Origen of Alexandria – Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy 175 births 242 deaths 2nd-century Egyptian people 2nd-century Greek philosophers 2nd-century Romans 3rd-century Egyptian people 3rd-century Greek philosophers 3rd-century Romans Ancient Greek metaphysicians Ancient Greek philosophers of mind Middle Platonists Philosophers in ancient Alexandria Roman-era Alexandrians Egyptian philosophers
The Book of Amos is the third of the Twelve Minor Prophets in the Old Testament (Tanakh) and the second in the Greek Septuagint tradition. Amos, an older contemporary of Hosea and Isaiah, was active c. 750 BC during the reign of Jeroboam II (788–747 BC) of Samaria (aka. Northern Israel), making Amos the first prophetic book of the Bible to be written. Amos lived in the kingdom of Judah but preached in the northern kingdom of Israel. His major themes of social justice, God's omnipotence, and divine judgment became staples of prophecy. Structure According to Michael D. Coogan, the structure of Amos is as follows: Oracles against the nations (1:3–2:6) Oracle concerning prophecy (3:3–8) Addresses to groups in Israel Women of Samaria (4:1–3) Rich people in Samaria (6:1–7) Rich people in Jerusalem (8:4–8) Five visions of God's judgment on Israel, interrupted by a confrontation between Amos and his listeners at Bethel (7:10–17): Locusts (7:1–3) Fire (7:4–6) A plumb line (7:7–9) A basket of fruit (8:1–3) God besides the altar (9:1–8a) Epilogue (9:8b–15) Summary The book opens with a historical note about the prophet, then a short oracle announcing Yahweh's judgment (repeated in the Book of Joel). The prophet denounces the crimes committed by the gentile (non-Jewish) nations, and tells Israel that even they have sinned and are guilty of the same crimes, and reports five symbolic visions prophesying the destruction of Israel. Included in this, with no apparent order, are an oracle on the nature of prophecy, snippets of hymns, oracles of woe, a third-person prose narrative concerning the prophet, and an oracle promising restoration of the House of David, which had not yet fallen in the lifetime of Amos. Composition Amos prophesied during the reign of Jeroboam II of Israel, and of Uzziah of Judah, which places him in the first half of the 8th century BC. According to the book's superscription (Amos 1:1) he was from Tekoa, a town in Judah south of Jerusalem, but his prophetic mission was in the northern kingdom. He is called a "shepherd" and a "dresser of sycamore trees", but the book's literary qualities suggest a man of education rather than a poor farmer. Scholars have long recognized that Amos utilized an ancient hymn within his prophecy, verses of which are found at 4:13, 5:8–9, 8:8, and 9:5–6. This hymn is best understood as praising Yahweh for his judgment, demonstrated in his destructive power, rather than praise for creation. Scholarship has also identified 'Sumerian City Lament' (SCL) motifs within Amos and particularly the hymn, offering the possibility that Amos used SCL as a literary template for his prophecy of Jerusalem's destruction. The Amos hymn has also been discussed in terms of a 'covenant curse' which was used to warn Israel of the consequences of breaking the covenant, and in particular a 'Flood covenant-curse' motif, first identified by D.R. Hillers. Recent scholarship has shown Amos's hymn is an ancient narrative text, has identified a new verse at 7.4; and has compared the hymn to the Genesis Flood account and Job 9:5–10. Themes The central idea of the book of Amos is that God puts his people on the same level as the surrounding nations – God expects the same purity of them all. As it is with all nations that rise up against the kingdom of God, even Israel and Judah will not be exempt from the judgment of God because of their idolatry and unjust ways. The nation that represents Yahweh must be made pure of anything or anyone that profanes the name of God; his name must be exalted. Amos is the first prophet to use the term "the Day of the Lord." This phrase becomes important within future prophetic and apocalyptic literature. For the people of Israel "The Day of the Lord" is the day when God will fight against his and their enemies, and it will be a day of victory for Israel. However, Amos and other prophets include Israel as an enemy of God, as Israel is guilty of injustice toward the innocent, poor, and young women. To Amos "The Day of the Lord" will be a day of doom. Other major ideas proposed in the book of Amos include: justice and concern for the disadvantaged, and that Yahweh is God of all nations (not just Israel), and is likewise the judge of all nations, and is also a God of moral righteousness. Also that Yahweh created all people, and the idea that Israel's covenant with God did not exempt them from accountability for sin; as well as that God elected and liberated Israel so that he would be known throughout the world. And that if God destroys the unjust, a remnant will remain, and that God is free to judge whether to redeem Israel. References Bibliography External links Online translations of Book of Amos: Jewish translations: Amos (Judaica Press) translation [with Rashi's commentary] at Chabad.org Christian translations: Online Bible at GospelHall.org (English Standard Version) Amos at Wikisource (Authorised King James Version) Nicholas Whyte on Amos New Advent Catholic Encyclopedia, Amos Forward Movement, Amos an Introduction (American Standard Version, Young's Literal Translation) 8th-century BC books Twelve Minor Prophets
In the Book of Exodus, Amram (; ) is the husband of Jochebed and father of Aaron, Moses and Miriam. In the Bible In addition to being married to Jochebed, Amram is also described in the Bible as having been related to Jochebed prior to the marriage, although the exact relationship is uncertain; some Greek and Latin manuscripts of the Septuagint state that Jochebed was Amram's father's cousin, and others state that Amram was Jochebed's cousin, but the Masoretic Text states that she was his father's sister. He is praised for his faith in the Epistle to the Hebrews. Textual scholars attribute the biblical genealogy to the Book of Generations, a hypothetically reconstructed document theorized to originate from a similar religiopolitical group and date to the priestly source. According to critical scholars, the Torah's genealogy for Levi's descendants, is actually an aetiological myth reflecting the fact that there were four different groups among the Levites – the Gershonites, Kohathites, Merarites, and Aaronids; Aaron – the eponymous ancestor of the Aaronids – could not be portrayed as a brother to Gershon, Kohath, and Merari, as the narrative about the birth of Moses (brother of Aaron), which textual scholars attribute to the earlier Elohist source, mentions only that both his parents were Levites (without identifying their names). Critical scholars suspect that the Elohist account offers both matrilineal and patrilineal descent from Levites in order to magnify the religious credentials of Moses. In the Quran Amram in Arabic is spelled (‘Imrān ). He was the father of Musa and Harun. In the Quran there is a whole chapter named Al-Imran. He is sometimes confused with Maryam’s father, whose name is also Imran, mentioned in at least two verses as the father of Maryam, the mother of Isa. This is reflected by the given name, Mūsā bin ‘Imrān, which means Moses, son of Amram. Family tree According to the Masoretic Text, Amram's family tree would be: According to the Septuagint, Amram's family tree would be as follows: According to The Book of Jasher (Midrash), Amram's family tree would be: Amram married his aunt, Jochebed, the sister of his father Kehath. In rabbinical and apocryphal literature In the Apocryphal Testament of Levi, it is stated that Amram was born, as a grandson of Levi, when Levi was 64 years old. The Exodus Rabbah argues that when the Pharaoh instructed midwives to throw male children into the Nile, Amram divorced Jochebed, who was three months pregnant with Moses at the time, arguing that there was no justification for the Israelite men to father children if they were just to be killed; however, the text goes on to state that Miriam, his daughter, chided him for his lack of care for his wife's feelings, persuading him to recant and marry Jochebed again. According to the Talmud, Amram promulgated the laws of marriage and divorce amongst the Jews in Egypt; the Talmud also argues that Amram had extreme longevity, which he used to ensure that doctrines were preserved through several generations. Despite the legend of his divorce and remarriage, Amram was also held to have been entirely sinless throughout his life, and was rewarded for this by his corpse remaining without any signs of decay. The other three ancient Israelites who died without sin, being Benjamin, Jesse and Chileab. According to the Book of Jubilees, Amram was among the Israelites who took the bones of Jacob's sons (excluding those of Joseph) to Canaan for burial in the cave of Machpelah. Most of the Israelites then returned to Egypt but some remained in Canaan. Those who remained included Amram, who only returned somewhere up to forty years later. One of the Dead Sea Scrolls (4Q544, Manuscript B) is written from Amram's point of view, and hence has been dubbed the Visions of Amram. The document is dated to the 2nd century BC and, in the form of a vision, briefly discusses dualism and the Watchers: See also Al Imran, "The Family of Imran", 3rd chapter of the Quran Joachim, father of Mary, mother of Jesus References Ancient Egyptian Jews Levites Book of Exodus people People of the Quran Moses Family of Aaron Tribe of Levi Book of Jubilees Epistle to the Hebrews Incest in mythology
Amyntas I () was king of the ancient Greek kingdom of Macedonia from at least 512/511 until his death in 498/497 BC. Although there were a number of rulers before him, Amyntas is the first king of Macedonia for which we have any reliable historical information. During Amyntas' reign, Macedonia became a vassal state of the Achaemenid Empire in 510 BC. Background Amyntas was a member of the Argead dynasty and the son of King Alcetas. According to Herodotus, Amyntas was the sixth king of Macedonia. He had two children with an unnamed spouse: Alexander I and Gygaea. Reign Relationship with the Persian Empire In 513 BC, Persian forces led by Darius I crossed the Bosporus in a successful expedition against the Scythians, securing a frontier on the Danube in the process. Darius then returned to Sardis in Asia Minor and ordered his cousin Megabazus to conquer the rest of Thrace. Megabazus marched westward into the Strymon Basin in 512 or 511 BC, subjugating a number of tribes along the way, including the Paeonions, whom he had deported to Asia. Amyntas may have taken advantage of this power vacuum by crossing the Axios River and seizing their former territory around Amphaxitis. In keeping with Persian practice, Megabazus dispatched seven envoys around 510 BC to meet Amyntas, most likely at the palace in Aegae, to demand "earth and water." Although the exact meaning of this request remains unclear, it appears that Amyntas met Megabazus' demands and invited the envoys to a feast. The Persians, according to Herodotus, requested the company of women after dinner, which Amyntas agreed to despite Macedonian customs. The women, identified as "concubines and wedded wives," sat across the table at first, but moved next to the envoys at their insistence. Flushed with wine, they began to fondle the women, but Amyntas remained silent out of fear of Persian power. Alexander, enraged by their actions, asked his father to leave and let him handle the situation. Amyntas advised caution, but eventually left, and Alexander sent the women away as well, assuring his guests that they were only washing themselves. In their place, "beardless men" disguised as women and armed with daggers returned to the party and murdered all seven envoys. The Persians began looking for the missing embassy, but Alexander covered it up by marrying his sister Gygaea to the general Bubares and paying him a large bribe. Modern historians are generally skeptical of the veracity of this story. It could have been fabricated by Herodotus to illustrate Alexander's cunning personality, or he could have simply repeated what he heard while visiting Macedonia. Furthermore, Amyntas, no matter how weak or foolish, is unlikely to have entrusted such a delicate diplomatic situation to his young son. Gygaea's marriage to Bubares is recognized as historical; Amyntas most likely arranged it himself or Alexander handled it after his father's death. Historian Eugene Borza argued that by rejecting the murder of the Persian ambassadors, there is no longer any evidence that Macedonia was a vassal-state during Amyntas' reign. In accordance with this argument, Mardonius, not Megabazus, would actually subjugate the Macedonians in 492 BC. Nicholas Hammond, on the other hand, asserted that Macedonia remained a loyal subject as part of the satrapy of Skudra until the Persian defeat at Platea in 479 BC. Amyntas and Athens Amyntas was the first Macedonian ruler to have diplomatic relations with other states. In particular, he entered into an alliance with Hippias of Athens, and when Hippias was driven out of Athens he offered him the territory of Anthemus on the Thermaic Gulf with the object of taking advantage of the feuds between the Greeks. Hippias refused the offer and also rejected the offer of Iolcus, as Amyntas probably did not control Anthemus at that time, but was merely suggesting a plan of joint occupation to Hippias. Family tree Modern historians disagree on a number of details concerning the genealogy of the Argead dynasty. Robin Lane Fox, for example, refutes Nicholas Hammond's claim that Ptolemy of Aloros was Amyntas II's son, arguing that Ptolemy was neither his son nor an Argead. Consequently, the chart below does not account for every chronological, genealogical, and dynastic complexity. Instead, it represents one common reconstruction of the early Argeads advanced by historians such as Hammond, Elizabeth D. Carney, and (1) Amyntas I () (2) Alexander I () (3) Perdiccas II () (4) Archelaus () (5) Orestes () Argaeus II () Pausanias unnamed daughter Derdas of Elimea unnamed daughter Amyntas II (6) Aeropus II () (8) Pausanias () unnamed son Menelaus (7) Amyntas II () (11) Ptolemy of Aloros () Amyntas Arrhidaeus (9) Amyntas III () From whom Philip II and Alexander III is descended. Philip Amyntas Agerrus Alcetas Alexander Agelaus Arepyros Stratonice Seuthes I Gygaea Bubares Amyntas See also Ancient Macedonians List of ancient Macedonians References Notes Citations 6th-century BC births 498 BC deaths 6th-century BC Macedonian monarchs 5th-century BC Macedonian monarchs Argead kings of Macedonia Achaemenid Macedon Vassals of the Achaemenid Empire Iolcus
Amyntas III () was king of the ancient Greek kingdom of Macedonia from 393/2 to 388/7 BC and again from 387/6 to 370 BC. He was a member of the Argead dynasty through his father Arrhidaeus, a son of Amyntas, one of the sons of Alexander I. His most famous son is Philip II, father of Alexander the Great. Family Polygamy was used by Macedonian kings both before and after Amyntas to secure marriage alliances and produce enough heirs to offset losses from intra-dynastic conflict. Consequently, Amyntas took two wives: Eurydice and Gygaea. He first married the former, daughter of the Lyncestian-Illyrian Sirras, by 390 BC and possibly in the aftermath of an Illyrian invasion. Through Eurydice, Amyntas had three sons, all of whom became kings of Macedonia one after the other, and a daughter: Alexander II, Perdiccas III, Philip II, and Eurynoe. The Roman historian Justin relates several, possibly apocryphal, stories about Eurydice and Eurynoe. He claims that Eurynoe prevented her mother and her lover (unnamed, but likely Ptolemy of Aloros) from assassinating Amyntas late in his reign by revealing the plan to her father. However, Eurynoe is not referred to by name in any other source and, moreover, is unlikely to have known the details of this supposedly secret plot. According to Justin, Amyntas spared Eurydice because they shared children, but that she would later help murder Alexander and Perdiccas in order to place Ptolemy on the throne. Alexander was in fact killed by friends of Ptolemy at a festival in 368, but the extent to which Eurydice knew of or participated in this plot is opaque. Perdiccas, on the other hand, assassinated Ptolemy in 365 only to be killed in battle by the Illyrians in 359. Amyntas most likely married Gygaea soon after marrying Eurydice, because Gygaea's children made no attempt to claim the throne before the 350s, implying that they were younger than Eurydice's children. Additionally, both Diodorus and Justin call Alexander II the eldest son of Amyntas. Through Gygaea, Amyntas had three more sons: Archelaus, Arrhidaeus, and Menelaus. Unlike Eurydice's children, none of Gygaea's sons ascended to the throne and were all killed by their half-brother Philip II. Amyntas also adopted the Athenian general Iphicrates around 386 in recognition of his military services and marital ties with the Thracian king, Cotys I. Lineage and accession Amyntas became king at a troubled time for Macedonia and the Argead dynasty. The unexpected death of his great-grandfather King Alexander I in 454 BC triggered a dynastic crisis between his five sons: Perdiccas II, Menelaus, Philip, Alcetas, and Amyntas' grandfather, Amyntas. Perdiccas would eventually emerge victorious, extinguishing the line of Philip. The elder Amyntas evidently retired to his lands at some point in the conflict and no part in the exercise of power. Archelaus, Perdiccas' son, ascended to the throne around 413 and allegedly murdered Alcetas and his son, thus eliminating that family branch as well. However, Archelaus would himself be killed, possibly murdered, in 400 or 399 by his lover Craterus. His death prompted another succession crisis, resulting in five kings ruling in less than seven years, with nearly all ending violently. As Diodorus tells us, the younger Amyntas seized the throne at this point in 393/2 after assassinating the previous king Pausanias. Following his accession, Macedonia experienced no major internal political problems for the entirety of Amyntas' reign. King of Macedon Shortly after he became king in 393 or 392, he was driven out by the Illyrians, but in the following year, with the aid of the Thessalians, he recovered his kingdom. Medius, head of the house of the Aleuadae of Larissa, is believed to have provided aid to Amyntas in recovering his throne. The mutual relationship between the Argeadae and the Aleuadae dates to the time of Archelaus. To shore up his country against the threat of the Illyrians, Amyntas established an alliance with the Chalcidian League led by Olynthus. In exchange for this support, Amyntas granted them rights to Macedonian timber, which was sent back to Athens to help fortify their fleet. With money flowing into Olynthus from these exports, their power grew. In response, Amyntas sought additional allies. He established connections with Kotys, chief of the Odrysians. Kotys had already married his daughter to the Athenian general Iphicrates. Prevented from marrying into Kotys' family, Amyntas soon adopted Iphicrates as his son. After the King's Peace of 387 BC, Sparta was anxious to re-establish its presence in northern Greece. In 385 BC, Bardylis and his Illyrians attacked Epirus instigated and aided by Dionysius I of Syracuse, in an attempt to restore the Molossian king Alcetas I of Epirus to the throne. When Amyntas sought Spartan aid against the growing threat of Olynthus, the Spartans eagerly responded. That Olynthus was backed by Athens and Thebes, rivals to Sparta for the control of Greece, provided them with an additional incentive to break up this growing power in the north. Amyntas thus concluded a treaty with the Spartans, who assisted him in a war against Olynthus. First Spartan-Macedonian forces suffered two defeats but in 379 they managed to destroy Olynthus. He also entered into a league with Jason of Pherae, and assiduously cultivated the friendship of Athens. In 371 BC at a Panhellenic congress of the Lacedaemonian allies, he voted in support of the Athenians' claim and joined other Greeks in voting to help Athens to recover possession of Amphipolis. With Olynthus defeated, Amyntas was now able to conclude a treaty with Athens and keep the timber revenues for himself. Amyntas shipped the timber to the house of the Athenian Timotheus, in Piraeus. Amyntas died aged 50, leaving his throne to his eldest son, Alexander II. See also Treaties between Amyntas III and the Chalcidians Amyntaio Citations External links Coins of Amyntas III Atheno-Macedonian Alliance-Translation of Epigraphy 370 BC deaths 4th-century BC Macedonian monarchs Argead kings of Macedonia Old Macedonian kingdom Year of birth missing
Anacharsis (; ) was a Scythian prince and philosopher of uncertain historicity who lived in the 6th century BC. Life Anacharsis was the brother of the Scythian king Saulius, and both of them were the sons of the previous Scythian king, Gnurus. Few concrete details are known about the life of the historical Anacharsis. He is known to have travelled to Greece, where he possibly became influenced by Greek culture. Anacharsis was later killed by his brother Saulius for having sacrificed to the Scythian ancestral Snake-Legged Goddess at her shrine in the country of Hylaea by performing an orgiastic and shamanistic ritual at night during which he wore images on his dress and played drums. The ancient Greek author, Herodotus of Halicarnassus, claimed that Anacharsis had been killed because he had renounced Scythian customs and adopted Greek ones, although this claim was likely invented by Herodotus himself. The religious rituals practised by Anacharsis instead corresponded more closely to those of the transvestite Anarya priesthood of the Scythians. Legacy An amphora found in the western at Pontic Olbia where was located the temple of Apollo Iētros () recorded the dedication of "paternal honey" to this god by a Scythian named Anaperrēs (), who may have been the son of Anacharsis. The nephew of Anacharsis, Idanthyrsus, who was the son and successor of Saulius, would later become famous among the Greeks in his own right for having resisted the Persian invasion of Scythia in 513 BC. In Graeco-Roman philosophy Later Graeco-Roman tradition transformed Anacharsis into a legendary figure as a kind of "noble savage" who represented "Barbarian wisdom," due to which the ancient Greeks included him as one of the Seven Sages of Greece. Consequently, Anarcharsis became a popular figure in Greek literature, and many legends arose about him, including claims that he had been a friend of Solon. The ancient Greek historian, Ephorus of Cyme, later used this image of Anacharsis to create an idealised image of the Scythians. Eventually, Anacharsis completely became an ideal "man of nature" or "noble savage" figure in Greek literature, as well as favourite figure of the Cynics, who ascribed to him a 3rd century BC work titled the . Due to the transformation of Anacharsis into a favourite character of Greek philosophers, nearly all of the ancient writings concerning him are about Greek literature, which makes the information regarding the historical Anacharsis himself difficult to assess. References Sources External links Jean Jacques Barthelemy's The Travels of Anacharsis the Younger in Greece (French) 6th-century BC Greek philosophers Ancient Greeks who were murdered Immigrants to Archaic Athens Male murder victims Presocratic philosophers Scythian people Seven Sages of Greece 6th-century BC Iranian people Ancient Iranian philosophers
Anah or Ana (, ʾĀna, ), formerly also known as Anna, is an Iraqi town on the Euphrates river, approximately midway between the Gulf of Alexandretta and the Persian Gulf. Anah lies from west to east on the right bank along a bend of the river just before it turns south towards Hit. Name The town was called (d)Ha-na-at in cuneiform texts from the Old Babylonian period, A-na-at of the land Suhum by the scribes of Tukulti-Ninurta BC, and An-at by the scribes of Assur-nasir-pal II in 879 BC. The name has been connected with the widely worshipped war goddess Anat. It was known as Anathō () to Isidore Charax and to Ammianus Marcellinus; early Arabic writers described it variously as ʾĀna or (as if plural) ʾĀnāt. History Middle Bronze The earliest references to Anah are probably found in letters of the period of Zimri-Lim of Mari. Under Hammurapi of Babylon the town was under Babylonian control, being included in the governorate of Sūḫu. Later, the town was under Assyrian rule. Iron Age At the beginning of the 8th century BC, Šamaš-rēša-uṣur and his son Ninurta-kudurrī-uṣur succeeded in creating an independent political entity, and called themselves "governors of Sūḫu and Mari". The land of Sūḫu occupied a quite extensive region on the Middle Euphrates, approximately from the area near Falluja in the southeast to the area of Ḫindanu (modern Tell Jabiriyah, near Al-Qa'im) in the northwest. Important evidence for this period was recovered during English and Iraqi salvage excavation campaigns at Sur Jurʿeh and on the island of ʿAna (Anah) in the early 1980s. Xenophon recorded that the army of Cyrus the Younger resupplied during a campaign in 401 BC at "Charmande" near the end of a 90-parasang march between Korsote and Pylae, which likely intends Anah. It was the site where the Roman emperor Julian first met opposition in his AD 363 expedition against the Sassanid Empire. He got possession of the place and relocated its inhabitants. Medieval and Ottoman Era In 657, during the Muslim conquest of Iraq, Ali's lieutenants Ziyad and Shureih were refused passage across the Euphrates at Anah. Later, in 1058, Anah was the place of exile of the caliph Qaim when al-Basasiri was in power. In the 14th century, Anah was the seat of the catholicos who served as primate over the Persian Christians. Throughout early Islamic rule, it was a prosperous trade town, well known for its date palms and gardens; in the 14th century, Mustafi wrote of the fame of its palm groves. Medieval Arab poets celebrated Anah's wine; Between the 14th and 17th centuries, Anah served as a headquarters for a host of regional Arab tribes. Starting around 1535, the town served as the de facto capital of the Abu Rish Bedouin emirs, whom the Ottomans appointed as governors of several s (provinces) as well as çöl beyis or "desert emirs". In 1574, Leonhart Rauwolff found the town divided into two parts, the Turkish "so surrounded by the river that you cannot go into it but by boats" and the larger Arabian section along one of the banks. In 1610, Texeira said Anah lay on both banks of the river, with which Pietro Della Valle agreed. In that year, Della Valle found the Scot George Strachan resident at Anah, working as the physician to the emir and studying Arabic; he also found some "sun worshippers" (actually Alawites) still living there. Della Valle and Texeira called Anah the principal Arab town on the Euphrates, controlling a major route west from Baghdad and territory reaching Palmyra. Late Ottoman era About 1750, the Ottomans installed a rudimentary administration to run Anah and its district. After roughly a century, a more organized local government was put in place, whereby Anah became the center of a kaza belonging to the Baghdad Vilayet. At the beginning of the 19th century, G.A. Olivier found only 25 men in service of the local prince, with residents fleeing daily to escape from bedouin attacks against which he offered no protection. He described the city as a single long street of five or six miles along a narrow strip of land between the river and a ridge of rocky hills. W. F. Ainsworth, chronicling the British Euphrates expedition, reported that in 1835 the Arabs inhabited the northwest part of the town, the Christians the center, and the Jews the southeast. The same year, the steamer Tigris went down in a storm just above Anah, near where Julian's force had suffered from a similar storm. By the mid-19th century, the houses were separated from one another by fruit gardens, which also filled the riverine islands near the town. The most easterly island contained a ruined castle, while the ruins of ancient Anatho extended a further two miles along the left bank. It marked the boundary between the olive (north) and date (south) growing regions in the area. With the positioning of Turkish troops in the town around 1890, the locals no longer had to pay blackmail () to the bedouins. Through the early 20th century, coarse cotton cloth was the only manufacture. In 1909 Anah had an estimated population of 15,000 and 2,000 houses. Most of the inhabitants were Sunni Muslim Arabs, though a small Jewish community lived on the town's southern edge. Kingdom of Iraq In 1918, the town was captured by British forces and by 1921, became incorporated into the Kingdom of Iraq. It remained an administrative center of a qadaa, part of the larger Ramadi-based liwa of Dulaym. Anah's qadaa also included the subdistricts of Hīt, al-Qa'im and Jubba. The townspeople's long feud with the inhabitants of Rawa was settled diplomatically by 1921. Its territory to the west was dominated by the subtribes of Anizzah, while to the east the Jarba branch of the Shammar held sway. Most of Anah's building were located among a dense belt of date palms and was "reckoned as healthy and picturesque", according to historian S. H. Longrigg. The date palms were irrigated by water wheels. There were also more scattered dwelling in the mid-stream islands of the Euphrates near the town center. The women of the town were well known for their beauty and the weaving of cotton and wool textiles. The men, many of whom were compelled to emigrate to lack of living space, were largely engaged as boatmen and transporters of water to Baghdad. The town had relatively high educational standards, with eight schools built there by 1946. F. R. Chesney reported about 1800 houses, two mosques, and 16 waterwheels. One minaret is particularly old. Northedge reported the locals commonly attributed it to the 11th century but opined that it was more likely from about a century after that. It rose from one of the islands and belonged to the local mosque. Dr. Muayad Said described it as an octagonal body "enhanced by alcoves, some of which are blind" and noted earlier conservation work undertaken in 1935, 1963 and 1964. When the valley was flooded by the Haditha Dam in 1984/85, the Iraqi State Board of Antiquities cut it into sections and removed it to the new Anah, where it was re-erected to a height of at the end of the 1980s. ISIS captured the town in 2014. On September 19, 2017, an offensive to retake the town from ISIS control began. After two days of fighting the town was recaptured by the Iraqi army. Climate Anah has a hot desert climate (Köppen climate classification BWh). Most rain falls in the winter. The average annual temperature in Anah is . About of precipitation falls annually. Notes References Attribution: External links Populated places in Al Anbar Governorate Populated places on the Euphrates River District capitals of Iraq First Babylonian Empire Anat
Anaxarchus (; ; c. 380 – c. 320 BC) was a Greek philosopher of the school of Democritus. Together with Pyrrho, he accompanied Alexander the Great into Asia. The reports of his philosophical views suggest that he was a forerunner of the Greek skeptics. Life Anaxarchus was born at Abdera in Thrace. He was the companion and friend of Alexander the Great in his Asiatic campaigns. His relationship with Alexander, however, was ambiguous, owing to contradictory sources. Some paint Anarxchus as a flatterer, among them Plutarch, who tells a story that at Bactra, in 327 BC in a debate with Callisthenes, Anaxarchus advised all to worship Alexander as a god even during his lifetime. In contrast, others paint Anaxarchus as scathingly ironic towards the monarch. According to Diogenes Laertius, in response to Alexander's claim to have been the son of Zeus-Ammon, Anaxarchus pointed to his bleeding wound and remarked, "See the blood of a mortal, not ichor, such as flows from the veins of the immortal gods." When Alexander was trying to show that he is divine so that the Greeks and Macedonians would perform proskynesis to him, Anaxarchus said that Alexander could "more justly be considered a god than Dionysus or Heracles" (Arrian, 104) Diogenes Laertius says that Anaxarchus earned the enmity of Nicocreon, the tyrant of Cyprus, with an inappropriate joke against tyrants in a banquet in Tyre in 331 BC. Later, when Anaxarchus was forced to land in Cyprus against his will, Nicocreon ordered him to be pounded to death in a mortar. The philosopher endured this torture with fortitude, taunting the king with, "just pound the bag of Anaxarchus, you do not pound Anaxarchus". When Nicocreon threatened to cut out his tongue, Anaxarchus himself cut it out and spat it in his face. Philosophy Very little is known about his philosophical views. It is thought that he represents a link between the atomism of Democritus, and the skepticism of his own apprentice Pyrrho. He also shares ethical traits with the Cynic and Cyrenaic schools. Anaxarchus is said to have studied under Diogenes of Smyrna, who in turn studied under Metrodorus of Chios, who used to declare that he knew nothing, not even the fact that he knew nothing. According to Sextus Empiricus, Anaxarchus "compared existing things to a scene-painting and supposed them to resemble the impressions experienced in sleep or madness." It was under the influence of Anaxarchus that Pyrrho is said to have adopted "a most noble philosophy, . . . taking the form of agnosticism and suspension of judgement." Anaxarchus is said to have praised Pyrrho's "indifference and sang-froid." He is said to have possessed "fortitude and contentment in life," which earned him the epithet eudaimonikos ("fortunate"). His skepticism seems to have been pragmatical, postulating that against the uncertainty of existence, the only viable stance is to pursue happiness or eudaimonia, for which it is necessary to cultivate indifference or adiaphora. According to him, the effort to differentiate truth from falseness through the senses is both useless and detrimental to happiness. He wrote a work named About the Monarchs. In it, he spouses that knowledge is useless without the ability to know when to speak and what to say in every occasion. Plutarch reports that he told Alexander the Great that there was an infinite number of worlds, causing the latter to become dejected because he had not yet conquered even one. References External links 4th-century BC Greek philosophers Abderites Ancient Greek atomist philosophers Ancient Thracian Greeks Hellenistic-era philosophers Philosophers and tutors of Alexander the Great Ancient Skeptic philosophers
Ancyra is a small genus of planthoppers of the family Eurybrachidae and the only genus in the tribe Ancyrini. Species in this genus occur in southeast Asia. Description Members of the genus are well known for having a pair of prolonged filaments at the tips of the forewings that arise near a pair of small glossy spots; this creates the impression of a pair of antennae, with corresponding "eyes" (a remarkable case of automimicry). The "false head" effect is further reinforced by the bugs' habit of walking backwards when it detects movement nearby, so as to misdirect predators to strike at its rear, rather than at its actual head. Taxonomy The genus Ancyra was first named in 1845 by Scottish zoologist Adam White. It is the only genus of the tribe Ancyrini (subfamily Platybrachinae, family Eurybrachidae). The type species is Ancyra appendiculata, the species name meaning bearing appendages. Species , lists the following seven species in the genus Ancyra: Ancyra annamensis – Vietnam Ancyra appendiculata – Myanmar Ancyra histrionica – Cambodia, Myanmar Ancyra luangana Ancyra nigrifrons – Malaysia Ancyra vicina – Vietnam Ancyra xiengana References Fauna of Southeast Asia Eurybrachidae Auchenorrhyncha genera
Anastasius II or Anastasios II may refer to: Pope Anastasius II (died 498), pope Anastasius II of Antioch (550–609), patriarch of Antioch Anastasius II of Jerusalem, patriarch of the Greek Orthodox Patriarchate of Jerusalem in 705–706 Anastasios II (died 719), Byzantine emperor
Anaximenes of Lampsacus (; ; 320 BC) was a Greek rhetorician and historian. He was one of the teachers of Alexander the Great and accompanied him on his campaigns. Family His father was named Aristocles (). His nephew (son of his sister), was also named Anaximenes and was a historian. Rhetorical works Anaximenes was a pupil of Diogenes the Cynic and Zoilus and, like his teacher, wrote a work on Homer. As a rhetorician, he was a determined opponent of Isocrates and his school. He is generally regarded as the author of the Rhetoric to Alexander, an Art of Rhetoric included in the traditional corpus of Aristotle's works. Quintilian seems to refer to this work under Anaximenes' name in Institutio Oratoria 3.4.9, as the Italian Renaissance philologist Piero Vettori first recognized. This attribution has, however, been disputed by some scholars. The hypothesis to Isocrates' Helen mentions that Anaximenes, too, had written a Helen, "though it is more a defense speech (apologia) than an encomium," and concludes that he was "the man who has written about Helen" to whom Isocrates refers (Isoc. Helen 14). Jebb entertained the possibility that this work survives in the form of the Encomium of Helen ascribed to Gorgias: "It appears not improbable that Anaximenes may have been the real author of the work ascribed to Gorgias." According to Pausanias (6.18.6), Anaximenes was "the first who practised the art of speaking extemporaneously." He also worked as a logographer, having written the speech prosecuting Phryne according to Diodorus Periegetes (quoted by Athenaeus XIII.591e). The "ethical" fragments preserved in Stobaeus' Florilegium may represent "some philosophical book." According to Suda, no one before Anaximenes had invented improvised speeches. Historical works Anaximenes wrote a history of Greece in twelve books, stretching from the gods' origins to the death of Epaminondas at the Battle of Mantinea (Hellenica, ), and a history of Philip of Macedon (Philippica). He was a favorite of Alexander the Great, whom he accompanied in his Persian campaigns, and wrote a third historical work on Alexander (however, Pausanias 6.18.6 expresses doubt about his authorship of an epic poem on Alexander). He was one of the eight exemplary historiographers included in the Alexandrian canon. Didymus reports that the work transmitted as speech 11 of Demosthenes (Against the Letter of Philip) could be found in almost identical form in Book 7 of Anaximenes' Philippica, and many scholars regard the work as a historiographic composition by Anaximenes. The Letter of Philip (speech 12) to which speech 11 seems to respond may also be by Anaximenes, or it may be an authentic letter by Philip, perhaps written with the aid of his advisers. The more ambitious theory of Wilhelm Nitsche, which assigned to Anaximenes a larger part of the Demosthenic corpus (speeches 10-13 and 25, letters 1–4, proems), can be rejected. Anaximenes was hostile to Theopompus, whom he sought to discredit with a libelous parody, Trikaranos, published in Theopompus' style and under his name, attacking Athens, Sparta, and Thebes. Pausanias wrote: "He imitated the style of Theopompus with perfect accuracy, inscribed his name upon the book and sent it round to the cities. Though Anaximenes was the author of the treatise, hatred of Theopompus grew throughout the length of Greece." Plutarch criticizes Anaximenes, together with Theopompus and Ephorus, for the "rhetorical effects and grand periods" these historians implausibly gave to men in the midst of urgent battlefield circumstances (Praecepta gerendae reipublicae 803b). Saving Lampsacus The people of Lampsacus were pro-Persian, or were suspected of doing so and Alexander was furiously angry, and threatened to do them massive harm. They sent Anaximenes to intercede for them. Alexander knew why he had come, and swore by the gods that he would do the opposite of what he would ask, so Anaximenes said, 'Please do this for me, your majesty: enslave the women and children of Lampsacus, burn their temples, and raze the city to the ground.' Alexander had no way round this clever trick, and since he was bound by his oath he reluctantly pardoned the people of Lampsacus. Statue at Olympia The people of Lampsacus dedicated a statue of him at Olympia, Greece. Editions and translations Art of Rhetoric edited by Immanuel Bekker, Oxford 1837 (online) Anaximenis ars rhetorica, L. Spengel (ed.), Leipzig, Vergsbureau, 1847. Rhetores Graeci, L. Spengel (ed.), Lipsiae, sumptibus et typis B. G. Teubneri, 1853, vol. 1 pp. 169-242. edited by Manfred Fuhrmann, Bibliotheca Teubneriana, Leipzig, 1966, 2nd ed. 2000, edited by Pierre Chiron, Collection Budé, with French translation, Paris, 2002, anonymous translation, London, 1686 (online) translated by E.S. Forster, Oxford, 1924 (online, beginning on p. 231) Fragments Karl Müller, appendix to 1846 Didot edition of Arrian, Anabasis et Indica (online) Felix Jacoby, Die Fragmente der griechischen Historiker, no. 72, with commentary in German Ludwig Radermacher, Artium Scriptores, Vienna, 1951, pp. 200–202 (rhetorical fragments only, adding Philodemus' Rhetorica, which accounts for three of the nine fragments printed) Notes References Ancient Greek rhetoricians People from Lampsacus 380 BC births 320 BC deaths Year of birth uncertain Year of death uncertain 4th-century BC historians 4th-century BC writers 4th-century BC poets Historians who accompanied Alexander the Great Historians from Hellenistic Anatolia Philosophers and tutors of Alexander the Great
Anastasius (Latinized) or Anastasios () is a masculine given name of Greek origin derived from the Greek word (anastasis) meaning "resurrection". Its female form is Anastasia (). A diminutive form of Anastasios is Tassos (). People Byzantine emperors Anastasius I Dicorus, reign 491–518 Anastasios II (died 719), reign 713–715 Popes of Rome Pope Anastasius I, papacy 399–401 Pope Anastasius II, papacy 496–498 Pope Anastasius III, papacy 911–913 Pope Anastasius IV, papacy 1153–1154 Other Christian saints and clergy Saint Anastasius, martyr under Nero Saint Anastasius the Fuller (died 304), martyr and patron saint of fullers and weavers ( 263–11 May 305) Pope Anastasius of Alexandria, Coptic Orthodox Pope of Alexandria 605–616 Anastasius of Antioch (disambiguation), multiple people Anastasius (Graeco-Roman jurist) (fl. 6th century) Saint Anastasius of Persia (died 628), Persian martyr Saint Anastasius of Pavia (died 680), bishop of Pavia Anastasius of Armenia, successor of Nerses III the Builder as Catholicos of Armenia from 661 to 667 Saint Anastasius Sinaita (fl. 7th century), theologian, Father of the Eastern Orthodox Church, monk, priest, and abbot of the monastery at Mt. Sinai Anastasius (abbot of Euthymius) (fl. 8th century) Anastasius Bibliothecarius ( 810–878), librarian of the Church of Rome, scholar and statesman, sometimes identified as an Antipope Astrik or Saint Anastasius of Pannonhalma, ambassador of Stephen I of Hungary Anastasius of Suppentonia (died 570), abbot Patriarch Anastasius of Constantinople, Patriarch of Constantinople 730–754 Anastasius, Cardinal-priest of the title of San Clemente, c. 1102–1125 Anastasius Germonius (1551–1627), Archbishop of Tarantaise and canon lawyer Anastasius the Melodist (Hymnographer), believed to be a name of three or more melodists, one of whom is believed to have been a contemporary of Rhomanos Anastasios (born 1929), Greek Orthodox Archbishop of Tirana, Durrës and All Albania Politicians and military Anastasios Balkos (1916–1995), Greek politician Anastasios Charalambis (1862–1949), Greek officer and interim Prime Minister of Greece Anastasios Dalipis (1896–1949), Greek Army officer and politician Anastasios Karatasos (1764–1830), Greek military commander during the Greek War of Independence Anastasios Londos (1791–1856), Greek politician and senator Anastasios Nerantzis (1944–2021), Greek politician Anastasios Papaligouras (born 1948), Greek politician Anastasios Papoulas (1857–1935), Greek general Anastasios Peponis (1924–2011), Greek politician Anastasios Polyzoidis (1802–1873), Greek politician and judicial official Anastasios Tsamados (1774–1825), Greek admiral of the Greek War of Independence Sports Anastasios Bountouris (born 1955), Greek Olympic medalist in sailing Anastasios Dimitriadis (born 1997), Greek footballer Anastasios Lagos (born 1992) Greek footballer Anastasios Metaxas (1862–1937), Greek architect Anastasios Orlandos (1887–1979), Greek archeologist and architect Anastasios Rousakis (born 1985), Greek footballer Anastasios Schizas (born 1977), Greek water polo player Anastasios Triantafyllou (born 1987), Greek weightlifter Pseudonym Anton Alexander Graf von Auersperg (1806–1876), Austrian poet who wrote under the pseudonym of Anastasius Grün Other Anastasius, a 19th-century novel by Thomas Hope See also Anastasia Anastasio Anastacio (name) Given names of Greek language origin Greek masculine given names Masculine given names
Ancus Marcius () was the legendary fourth king of Rome, who traditionally reigned 24 years. Upon the death of the previous king, Tullus Hostilius, the Roman Senate appointed an interrex, who in turn called a session of the assembly of the people who elected the new king. Ancus is said to have ruled by waging war as Romulus did, while also promoting peace and religion as Numa Pompilius did. Ancus Marcius was believed by many Romans to have been the namesake of the Marcii, a plebeian family. Background Ancus was the son of Marcius (himself the son of Rome's first pontifex maximus Numa Marcius) and Pompilia (daughter of Numa Pompilius). Ancus Marcius was thus the grandson of Numa and therefore a Sabine. According to Festus, Marcius was surnamed Ancus because of his crooked arm (ancus signifying "bent" in Latin). First acts as King According to Livy, Ancus's first act as king was to order the Pontifex Maximus to copy the text concerning the performance of public ceremonies of religion from the commentaries of Numa Pompilius to be displayed to the public on wooden tablets, so that the rites of religion should no longer be neglected or improperly performed. When Tullus was king, he repealed the Numa-created religious edicts that had been in place before. War According to Livy, the accession of Ancus emboldened the Latin League, who assumed that the new king would follow the pious pursuit of peace adopted by his grandfather, Numa Pompilius. The Latins accordingly made an incursion on Roman lands, and gave a contemptuous reply to a Roman embassy seeking restitution for the damage. Ancus responded by declaring war on the Latins. Livy says that this event was notable as the first time that the Romans declared war by means of the rites of the fetials. Ancus Marcius marched from Rome with a newly levied army and took the Latin town of Politorium (situated near the town of Lanuvium) by storm. Its residents were removed to settle on the Aventine Hill in Rome as new citizens, following the Roman traditions from wars with the Sabines and Albans. When the other Latins subsequently occupied the empty town of Politorium, Ancus took the town again and demolished it. The Latin villages of Tellenae and Ficana were also sacked and demolished. The war then focused on the Latin town of Medullia. The town had a strong garrison and was well fortified. Several engagements took place outside the town and the Romans were eventually victorious. Ancus returned to Rome with a large amount of loot. More Latins were brought to Rome as citizens and were settled at the foot of the Aventine near the Palatine Hill, by the temple of Murcia. Ancus Marcius incorporated the Janiculum into the city, fortifying it with a wall and connecting it with the city by a wooden bridge across the Tiber, the Pons Sublicius. To protect the bridge from enemy attacks, Ancus had the end that was facing the Janiculum fortified. Ancus also took over Fidenea to expand Rome's influence across the Tiber. On the land side of the city he constructed the Fossa Quiritium, a ditch fortification. He also built Rome's first prison, the Mamertine prison. He then extended the Roman territory, founding the port of Ostia, establishing salt-works around the port, and taking the Silva Maesia, an area of coastal forest north of the Tiber, from the Veientes. He expanded the temple of Jupiter Feretrius to reflect these territorial successes. According to a reconstruction of the Fasti Triumphales, Ancus Marcius celebrated at least one triumph, over the Sabines and Veientes. Death and successor Ancus Marcius is reported to have died of natural causes after a rule of 24 years. He had two sons, one of which would likely take the throne. A member of Ancus' court, Lucius Tarquinius Priscus, ensured that Ancus' sons would be out of Rome so he could put together an election where he would gain the support of the Roman people. Ancus Marcius was succeeded by his friend Lucius Tarquinius Priscus, who was ultimately assassinated by the sons of Ancus Marcius. Later, during the Republic and the Empire, the prominent gens Marcia claimed descent from Ancus Marcius. References 670s BC births 617 BC deaths 7th-century BC Romans 7th-century BC monarchs Characters in Book VI of the Aeneid Kings of Rome Ancus Year of birth unknown
Alexander Anderson ( in Aberdeen – in Paris) was a Scottish mathematician. Life He was born in Aberdeen, possibly in 1582, according to a print which suggests he was aged 35 in 1617. It is unknown where he was educated, but it is likely that he initially studied writing and philosophy (the "belles lettres") in his home city of Aberdeen. He then went to the continent, and was a professor of mathematics in Paris by the start of the seventeenth century. There he published or edited, between the years 1612 and 1619, various geometric and algebraic tracts. He described himself as having "more wisdom than riches" in the dedication of Vindiciae Archimedis (1616). He was first cousin of David Anderson of Finshaugh, a celebrated mathematician, and David Anderson's daughter was the mother of mathematician James Gregory. Work He was selected by the executors of François Viète to revise and edit Viète's manuscript works. Viète died in 1603, and it is unclear if Anderson knew him, but his eminence was sufficient to attract the attention of the dead man's executors. Anderson corrected and expanded upon Viète's manuscripts, which extended known geometry to the new algebra, which used general symbols to represent quantities. Publications The known works of Anderson amount to six thin quarto volumes, and as the last of them was published in 1619, it is probable that the author died soon after that year, but the precise date is unknown. He wrote other works that have since been lost. From his last work it appears he wrote another piece, "A Treatise on the Mensuration of Solids," and copies of two other works, Ex. Math. and Stereometria Triangulorum Sphæricorum, were in the possession of Sir Alexander Hume until the after the middle of the seventeenth century. 1612: Supplementum Apollonii Redivivi 1615: Ad Angularum Sectionem Analytica Theoremata F. Vieta 1615: Pro Zetetico Apolloniani 1615: Francisci Vietae Fontenaeensis 1616: Vindiciae Archimedis 1619: Alexandri Andersoni Exercitationum Mathematicarum Decas Prima See also Marin Getaldić Denis Henrion Frans van Schooten References Attribution: Further reading 1580s births 1620 deaths People from Aberdeen Algebraists British geometers Scottish mathematicians 17th-century Scottish people Scottish scholars and academics Academic staff of the University of Paris 17th-century Scottish scientists 17th-century Scottish mathematicians
Andrea Andreani (1540–1623) was an Italian engraver on wood, who was among the first printmakers in Italy to use chiaroscuro, which required multiple colours. Andreani was born and generally active in Mantua about 1540 (Brulliot says 1560) and died at Rome in 1623. His engravings are scarce and valuable, and are chiefly copies of Mantegna, Albrecht Dürer, Parmigianino and Titian. The most remarkable of his works are Mercury and Ignorance, the Deluge, Pharaoh's Host Drowned in the Red Sea (after Titian), the Triumph of Caesar (after Mantegna), and Christ retiring from the judgment-seat of Pilate after a relief by Giambologna. He was active 1584–1610 in Florence. Andreani's work is held in several museums worldwide, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, the Cleveland Museum of Art, the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco, the Ackland Art Museum, the Clark Art Institute, the Harvard Art Museums, the Victoria and Albert Museum, the Albright–Knox Art Gallery, the National Gallery of Canada, the Davis Museum at Wellesley College, the Cooper Hewitt, the University of Michigan Museum of Art, the Bowdoin College Museum of Art, the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, the Philadelphia Museum of Art, the Princeton University Art Museum, and the British Museum. References Sources "Andrea Andreani" in the Encyclopædia Britannica, 9th Edition, Vol. II, p. 20. Getty ULAN entry. Further reading artnet 1540 births 1623 deaths Artists from Mantua 16th-century Italian artists 17th-century Italian artists Italian engravers 16th-century engravers 17th-century engravers
André de Longjumeau (also known as Andrew of Longjumeau in English) was a 13th-century Dominican missionary and diplomat and one of the most active Occidental diplomats in the East in the 13th century. He led two embassies to the Mongols: the first carried letters from Pope Innocent IV and the second bore gifts and letters from Louis IX of France to Güyük Khan. Well acquainted with the Middle-East, he spoke Arabic and "Chaldean" (thought to be either Syriac or Persian). Mission for the holy Crown of Thorns André's first mission to the East was when he was asked by the French king Louis IX to go to Constantinople to obtain the Crown of Thorns which had been sold to him by the Latin Emperor Baldwin II in 1238, who was anxious to obtain support for his empire. André was accompanied on this mission by a Dominican friar, brother Jacques. Papal mission to the Mongols (1245–1247) André of Longjumeau led one of four missions dispatched to the Mongols by Pope Innocent IV. He left Lyon in the spring of 1245 for the Levant. He visited Muslim principalities in Syria and representatives of the Nestorian and Jacobite churches in Persia, finally delivering the papal correspondence to a Mongol general near Tabriz. In Tabriz, André de Longjumeau met with a monk from the Far East, named Simeon Rabban Ata, who had been put in charge by the Khan of protecting the Christians in the Middle-East. Second mission to the Mongols (1249–1251) At the Mongol camp near Kars, André had met a certain David, who in December 1248 appeared at the court of King Louis IX of France in Cyprus. André, who was now with the French King, interpreted David’s words as a real or pretended offer of alliance from the Mongol general Eljigidei, and a proposal of a joint attack upon the Islamic powers of Syria. In reply to this the French sovereign dispatched André as his ambassador to Güyük Khan. Longjumeau went with his brother Jacques (also a Dominican) and several others – John Goderiche, John of Carcassonne, Herbert "Le Sommelier", Gerbert of Sens, Robert (a clerk), a certain William, and an unnamed clerk of Poissy. The party set out on 16 February 1249, with letters from King Louis and the papal legate, and lavish presents, including a chapel-tent lined with scarlet cloth and embroidered with sacred pictures. From Cyprus they went to the port of Antioch in Syria, and thence traveled for a year to the Khan's court, going ten leagues (55.56 kilometers) per day. Their route led them through Persia, along the southern and eastern shores of the Caspian Sea, and certainly through Talas, north-east of Tashkent. On arrival at the supreme Mongol court – either that on the Imyl river (near Lake Alakol and the present Russo-Chinese frontier in the Altai), or more probably at or near Karakorum itself, south-west of Lake Baikal – André found Güyük Khan dead, poisoned, as the envoy supposed, by Batu Khan's agents. The regent-mother Oghul Qaimish (the "Camus" of William of Rubruck) seems to have received and dismissed him with presents and a dismissive letter for Louis IX. But it is certain that before the friar had left "Tartary", Möngke, Güyük's successor, had been elected. André's report to his sovereign, whom he rejoined in 1251 at Caesarea in Palestine, appears to have been a mixture of history and fable; the latter affects his narrative of the Mongols' rise to greatness, and the struggles of their leader Genghis Khan with the mythical Prester John, and in the supposed location of the Mongols' homeland, close to the prison of Gog and Magog. On the other hand, the envoy's account of Mongol customs is fairly accurate, and his statements about Mongol Christianity and its prosperity, though perhaps exaggerated (e.g. as to the 800 chapels on wheels in the nomadic host) are likely factual. Mounds of bones marked his road, witnesses of devastations that other historians record in detail. He found Christian prisoners from Germany in the heart of "Tartary" (at Talas) and was compelled to observe the ceremony of passing between two fires, as a bringer of gifts to a dead Khan, gifts which were treated by the Mongols as evidence of submission. This insulting behavior, and the language of the letter with which André reappeared, marked the mission a failure: King Louis, says Joinville, "se repenti fort" ("felt very sorry"). Death The date and location of André's death is unknown. We only know of André through references in other writers: see especially William of Rubruck's in Recueil de voyages, iv. (Paris, 1839), pp. 261, 265, 279, 296, 310, 353, 363, 370; Joinville, ed. Francisque Michel (1858, etc.), pp. 142, etc.; Jean Pierre Sarrasin, in same vol., pp. 254–235; William of Nangis in Recueil des historiens des Gaules, xx. 359–367; Rémusat, Mémoires sur les relations politiques des princes chrétiens… avec les… Mongols (1822, etc.), p. 52. See also Giovanni da Pian del Carpine Lawrence of Portugal Ascelin of Lombardia Simon of St Quentin Exploration of Asia Franco-Mongol alliance Notes References 13th-century explorers French Dominicans Roman Catholic missionaries in Mongolia Diplomats of the Holy See Holy See–Mongolia relations French diplomats France–Mongolia relations French explorers Explorers of Asia 13th-century births 13th-century deaths Ambassadors to the Mongol Empire French Roman Catholic missionaries Dominican missionaries French expatriates in Mongolia 13th-century diplomats Christians of the Sixth Crusade
Andronicus of Cyrrhus or Andronicus Cyrrhestes (Latin; , Andrónikos Kyrrhēstēs; ) was a Hellenized Macedonian astronomer best known for designing the Tower of the Winds in Roman Athens. Life Little is known about the life of Andronicus, although his father is recorded as Hermias. It is usually assumed that he came from the Cyrrhus in Macedonia rather than the one in Syria. Work Andronicus is usually credited with the construction of the Tower of the Winds in the Roman forum at Athens around a considerable portion of which still exists. It is octagonal, with figures of the eight principal winds (Anemoi) carved on the appropriate side. Originally, a bronze figure of Triton was placed on the summit that was turned round by the wind so that the rod in his hand pointed to the correct wind direction, an idea replicated with subsequent wind vanes. The interior housed a large clepsydra and the exterior housed multiple sundials so that it functioned as a kind of early clocktower. He also built a multifaced sundial for the Temple of Poseidon on the island of Tinos. References Citations Bibliography . External links Tenos island - Epigraphical Database - IG XII,5 891 Ancient Greek astronomers Ancient Macedonian scientists Ancient Macedonians in Athens Roman-era Macedonians 2nd-century BC births 1st-century BC deaths Year of birth unknown Year of death unknown 2nd-century BC astronomers
Andronicoos of Rhodes (; ; ) was a Greek philosopher from Rhodes who was also the scholarch (head) of the Peripatetic school. He is most famous for publishing a new edition of the works of Aristotle that forms the basis of the texts that survive today. Life Little is known about Andronicus' life. He is reported to have been the eleventh scholarch of the Peripatetic school. He taught in Rome, about 58 BC, and was the teacher of Boethus of Sidon, with whom Strabo studied. Works of Aristotle Andronicus is of special interest in the history of philosophy, from the statement of Plutarch, that he published a new edition of the works of Aristotle and Theophrastus, which formerly belonged to the library of Apellicon, and were brought to Rome by Sulla with the rest of Apellicon's library in 84. Tyrannion commenced this task, but apparently did not do much towards it. The arrangement which Andronicus made of Aristotle's writings seems to be the one which forms the basis of our present editions and we are probably indebted to him for the preservation of a large number of Aristotle's works. Writings Andronicus wrote a work upon Aristotle, the fifth book of which contained a complete list of the philosopher's writings, and he also wrote commentaries upon the Physics, Ethics, and Categories. None of these works is extant. Two treatises are sometimes erroneously attributed to him, one On Emotions, the other a commentary on Aristotle's Ethics (really by Constantine Paleocappa in the 16th century, or by John Callistus of Thessalonica). Notes References Further reading External links The Rediscovery of the Corpus Aristotelicum with an annotated bibliography Attribution 1st-century BC Greek philosophers Commentators on Aristotle Roman-era Peripatetic philosophers Roman-era philosophers in Rome Philosophers in ancient Rhodes Roman-era Rhodians Ancient Greek ethicists
Andronicus or Andronikos () is a classical Greek name. The name has the sense of "male victor, warrior". Its female counterpart is Andronikè (Ἀνδρονίκη). Notable bearers of the name include: People Andronicus of Olynthus, Greek general under Demetrius in the 4th century BC Livius Andronicus (), Greco-Roman dramatist and epic poet who introduced drama to the Romans and produced the first formal play in Latin Andronicus ben Meshullam, Jewish scholar of the 2nd century BC Andronicus of Pergamum, 2nd-century BC diplomat Andronicus of Macedonia, Macedonian governor of Ephesus in 2nd century BC Andronicus of Cyrrhus (fl. ), Greek astronomer Andronicus of Rhodes (fl. ), Greek philosopher Andronicus of Pannonia (Saint Andronicus), Christian apostle of the seventy mentioned in Romans 16:7 Andronicus (physician), Greek physician of the 2nd century Andronicus (poet), Greek writer of the 4th century Saint Andronicus, 4th-century Christian martyr Andronicus of Alexandria, soldier, martyr, saint and companion of Faustus, Abibus and Dionysius of Alexandria Coptic Pope Andronicus of Alexandria (reigned 616–622) Andronikos I Komnenos (–1185), Byzantine emperor Andronikos II Palaiologos (1258–1332) Andronikos III Palaiologos (1297–1341) Andronikos IV Palaiologos (1348–1385) Andronikos V Palaiologos (), co-emperor with his father, John VII Palaiologos Andronikos Palaiologos (son of Manuel II) (1403–1429), Byzantine prince and governor Andronikos I of Trebizond (), emperor of Trebizond Andronikos II of Trebizond () Andronikos III of Trebizond () Andronicus of Veszprém, 13th-century Hungarian cleric Andronikos Euphorbenos (), Byzantine aristocrat and military commander Andronikos Kakoullis (born 2001), Cypriot footballer Fictional characters Titus Andronicus, a play by William Shakespeare, possibly inspired by one of the above-listed emperors Andronicus, or the Unfortunate Politician, a 1646 satire by Thomas Fuller See also Andronikos Komnenos (disambiguation) Andronikos Palaiologos (disambiguation)
Alfred may refer to: Arts and entertainment Alfred J. Kwak, Dutch-German-Japanese anime television series Alfred (Arne opera), a 1740 masque by Thomas Arne Alfred (Dvořák), an 1870 opera by Antonín Dvořák "Alfred (Interlude)" and "Alfred (Outro)", songs by Eminem from the 2020 album Music to Be Murdered By Business and organisations Alfred, a radio station in Shaftesbury, England Alfred Music, an American music publisher Alfred University, New York, U.S. The Alfred Hospital, a hospital in Melbourne, Australia People Alfred (name) includes a list of people and fictional characters called Alfred Alfred the Great (848/49 – 899), or Alfred I, a king of the West Saxons and of the Anglo-Saxons Places Antarctica Mount Alfred (Antarctica) Australia Alfredtown, New South Wales County of Alfred, South Australia Canada Alfred and Plantagenet, Ontario Alfred Island, Nunavut Mount Alfred, British Columbia United States Alfred, Maine, a New England town Alfred (CDP), Maine, the main village in the town Alfred, New York, a town Alfred (village), New York, within the town of Alfred Alfred, North Dakota Alfred, Texas Lake Alfred, Florida Other uses HMS Alfred, the name of several ships of the Royal Navy USS Alfred, launched in 1774 as Black Prince Alfred (software), an application launcher for macOS ALFRED (nuclear reactor), lead-cooled fast reactor demonstrator Allele Frequency Database, an electronic database of genetic alleles See also Alfredo (disambiguation) HMS King Alfred HMS Royal Alfred (1864)
ABM or Abm may refer to: Companies ABM Industries, a US facility management provider ABM Intelligence, a UK software company Advantage Business Media, a US digital marketing and information services company Associated British Maltsters, acquired by Dalgety plc Computing Advanced Bit Manipulation, an instruction set extension for x86 Agent-based model, a computational model for simulating autonomous agents Asynchronous Balanced Mode, an HDLC communication mode Military Air Battle Manager, US Air Force rated officer position Anti-ballistic missile Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty, 1972 arms control treaty between the US and USSR Organizations Abahlali baseMjondolo, movement of South African shack dwellers Anglican Board of Mission - Australia, the national mission agency of the Anglican Church of Australia Ansar Bait al-Maqdis, an Egyptian jihadist group Other uses Abanyom language of Nigeria, ISO 639-3 code ABM (video game), 1980 video game Account-based marketing, strategic approach to business marketing Activity-based management, method of identifying and evaluating activities that a business performs Agaricus blazei Murill, a species of mushroom Automated banking machine, Canadian term for automated teller machine IATA airport code for Northern Peninsula Airport, in Queensland, Australia Atmospheric Black Metal
ATP may refer to: Science, technology and biology Adenosine triphosphate, an organic chemical used for driving biological processes ATPase, any enzyme that makes use of adenosine triphosphate Advanced Technology Program, US government program Anti-tachycardia pacing, process similar to a pacemaker Alberta Taciuk process, for extracting oil from shale, etc. Automated theorem proving, method of proving mathematical theorems by computer programs Companies and organizations Association of Tennis Professionals, men's professional tennis governing body ATP Tour American Technical Publishers, employee-owned publishing company Armenia Tree Project, non-profit organization Association for Transpersonal Psychology ATP architects engineers, architecture- and engineering office for integrated design ATP Oil and Gas, defunct US energy company Entertainment, arts and media Adenosine Tri-Phosphate (band), Japanese alternative rock/pop band All Tomorrow's Parties (festival), UK organisation ATP Recordings, record label Alberta Theatre Projects, professional, not-for-profit, Canadian theatre company Associated Talking Pictures, former name of Ealing Studios, a television and film production company Transport British Aerospace ATP, airliner Airline transport pilot license ATP Flight School, US ATP (treaty), UN treaty that establishes standards for the international transport of perishable food Aitape Airport, Papua New Guinea, IATA code Anti-trespass panels, meant to deter pedestrians from walking on or adjacent to train tracks Automatic train protection, system installed in trains to prevent collisions through driver error Automatic Train Protection (United Kingdom), method of beacon based railway cab signalling Economics Available-to-promise, responding to customer order enquiries , a Danish pension , a Swedish pension Other uses Around-the-post, a term used in the game of pickleball
ASA as an abbreviation or initialism may refer to: Biology and medicine Accessible surface area of a biomolecule, accessible to a solvent Acetylsalicylic acid, aspirin Advanced surface ablation, refractive eye surgery Anterior spinal artery, the blood vessel which supplies the anterior portion of the spinal cord Antisperm antibodies, antibodies against sperm antigens Argininosuccinic aciduria, a disorder of the urea cycle ASA physical status classification system, rating of patients undergoing anesthesia Education and research African Studies Association of the United Kingdom African Studies Association Alandica Shipping Academy, Åland Islands, Finland Albany Students' Association, at Massey University, Auckland, New Zealand Alexander-Smith Academy, in Houston, Texas Alpha Sigma Alpha, U.S. national sorority American Society for Aesthetics, philosophical organization American Student Assistance, national non-profit organization American Studies Association Arizona School for the Arts Armenian Sisters Academy Association of Social Anthropologists Astronomical Society of Australia Austrian Studies Association Organizations Acoustical Society of America, international scientific society Advertising Standards Authority (disambiguation), advertising regulators in several countries American Scientific Affiliation, an organization of Christians in science American Society of Agronomy American Society of Anesthesiologists American Society of Appraisers American Sociological Association American Staffing Association American Standards Association, a former name of the American National Standards Institute American Statistical Association American Synesthesia Association Americans for Safe Access, marijuana law reform group Association for Social Advancement, microfinance institution, Bangladesh Association for the Study of Abortion Association of Scouts of Azerbaijan Association of Southeast Asia Australian Submarine Agency Australian Society of Authors Australian Space Agency Austrian Service Abroad Autism Society of America United States Army Security Agency Sports Agremiação Sportiva Arapiraquense, Brazilian soccer club Alliance Sport Alsace, French basketball club Amateur Softball Association, former name of the governing body now known as USA Softball Amateur Swimming Association, former name of Swim England American Sailing Association American Samoa, IOC country code American Speed Association, motorsports sanctioning body American Sportscasters Association Arizona Soccer Association Athletics South Africa, the national governing body for the sport of athletics in South Africa Atlético Sport Aviação, Angolan multisports club United States Adult Soccer Association Transportation ASA (automobile), Italian marque of automobiles (Autocostruzioni Società per Azioni) ASA Aluminium Body, Argentinian manufacturer of replicas of sports cars Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares, Mexican airport operator African Safari Airways, airline company based in East Africa Air services agreement, bilateral agreement to allow international commercial air transport services between signatories Atlantic Southeast Airlines, in Atlanta area, Georgia Airline Superintendents Association, of Trinidad & Tobago Airservices Australia, air traffic management and related services provider for Australia The International Civil Aviation Organization's code for Alaska Airlines Other ASA ("American Standards Association") a measure of film speed in photography, later replaced by the ISO standard Acrylonitrile styrene acrylate, a thermoplastic used for 3D printing and in the auto industry Adaptive simulated annealing, optimization algorithm Cisco ASA (Adaptive Security Appliances) Allied States of America, a fictional American nation in the television show Jericho Allmennaksjeselskap, the designation for a Norwegian public limited company Anti-Soviet agitation, a criminal offense in the Soviet Union ASA carriage control characters, a system used for controlling mainframe line printers Assistant state's attorney, a title for attorneys working in the state's attorney's office in the United States As-salamu alaykum, a greeting in Arabic that means "peace be upon you" Auditory scene analysis, a proposed model for the basis of auditory perception See also Åsa (disambiguation)
Actium or Aktion () was a town on a promontory in ancient Acarnania at the entrance of the Ambraciot Gulf, off which Octavian gained his celebrated victory, the Battle of Actium, over Antony and Cleopatra, on September 2, 31 BCE. History Actium belonged originally to the Corinthian colonists of Anactorium, who probably founded the sanctuary of Apollo Actius. This temple was of great antiquity. In the 3rd century BCE it fell to the Acarnanians, who subsequently held their religious summits there. There was also an ancient festival named Actia, celebrated here in honour of the god. Augustus after his victory enlarged the temple, and revived the ancient festival, which was henceforth celebrated once in five years (πενταετηρίς, ludi quinquennales), with musical and gymnastic contests, and horse races. We learn from a Greek inscription found on the site of Actium, and which is probably prior to the time of Augustus, that the chief priest of the temple was called Ἱεραπόλος, and that his name was employed in official documents, like that of the first Archon at Athens, to mark the date. Strabo says that the temple was situated on an eminence, and that below was a plain with a grove of trees, and a dock-yard; and in another passage he describes the harbour as situated outside of the gulf. On the opposite coast of Epirus, Augustus founded the city of Nicopolis in honour of his victory. After the foundation of Nicopolis, a few buildings sprang up around the temple, and it served as a kind of suburb to Nicopolis. Archaeology On October 8, 1980, the Greek Ministry of Transport and Communications reported that shipwrecks from the Battle of Actium had been located at Actium near the entrance to the Ambracan Gulf. In Summer 2009, archaeologists discovered the ruins of the Temple of Apollo and found two statue heads, one of Apollo, one of Artemis (Diana). See also Battle of Actium List of ancient Greek cities Preveza the nearest modern town, connected by a 1.5 km long tunnel References External links Ancient Greek archaeological sites in Greece Archaeological sites in Western Greece Corinthian colonies Former populated places in Greece Roman towns and cities in Greece Populated places in ancient Acarnania
In linguistics, an allomorph is a variant phonetic form of a morpheme, or, a unit of meaning that varies in sound and spelling without changing the meaning. The term allomorph describes the realization of phonological variations for a specific morpheme. The different allomorphs that a morpheme can become are governed by morphophonemic rules. These phonological rules determine what phonetic form, or specific pronunciation, a morpheme will take based on the phonological or morphological context in which they appear. In English English has several morphemes that vary in sound but not in meaning, such as past tense morphemes, plural morphemes, and negative morphemes. Past tense allomorphs For example, an English past tense morpheme is -ed, which occurs in several allomorphs depending on its phonological environment by assimilating the voicing of the previous segment or the insertion of a schwa after an alveolar stop: as or in verbs whose stem ends with the alveolar stops or , such as 'hunted' or 'banded' as in verbs whose stem ends with voiceless phonemes other than , such as 'fished' as in verbs whose stem ends with voiced phonemes other than , such as 'buzzed' The "other than" restrictions above are typical for allomorphy. If the allomorphy conditions are ordered from most restrictive (in this case, after an alveolar stop) to least restrictive, the first matching case usually has precedence. Thus, the above conditions could be rewritten as follows: as or when the stem ends with the alveolar stops or as when the stem ends with voiceless phonemes as elsewhere The allomorph does not appear after stem-final although the latter is voiceless, which is then explained by appearing in that environment, together with the fact that the environments are ordered. Likewise, the allomorph does not appear after stem-final because the earlier clause for the allomorph has priority. The allomorph does not appear after stem-final voiceless phoneme because the preceding clause for the comes first. Irregular past tense forms, such as "broke" or "was/were," can be seen as still more specific cases since they are confined to certain lexical items, such as the verb "break," which take priority over the general cases listed above. Plural allomorphs The plural morpheme for regular nouns in English is typically realized by adding an -s or -es to the end of the noun. However, the plural morpheme actually has three different allomorphs: [-s], [-z], and [-əz]. The specific pronunciation that a plural morpheme takes on is determined by the following morphological rules: Assume that the basic form of the plural morpheme, /-z/, is [-z] ("bags" /bægz/) The morpheme /-z/ becomes [-əz] by inserting an [ə] before [-z] when a noun ends in a sibilant ("buses" /bʌsəz/) Change the morpheme /-z/ to a voiceless [-s] when a noun ends in a voiceless sound ("caps" /kæps/) Negative allomorphs In English, the negative prefix in- has three allomorphs: [ɪn-], [ɪŋ-], and [ɪm-]. The phonetic form that the negative morpheme /ɪn-/ uses is determined by the following morphological rules: the negative morpheme /ɪn-/ becomes [ɪn-] when preceding an alveolar consonant ("intolerant"/ɪn'tɔlərənt/) the morpheme /ɪn-/ becomes [ɪŋ-] before a velar consonant ("incongruous" /ɪŋ'kɔŋgruəs/) the morpheme /ɪn-/ becomes [ɪm-] before a bilabial consonant ("improper" /ɪm'prɔpər/) In Sami languages The Sami languages have a trochaic pattern of alternating stressed and unstressed syllables. The vowels and consonants that are allowed in an unstressed syllable differ from those that are allowed in a stressed syllable. Consequently, every suffix and inflectional ending has two forms, and the form that is used depends on the stress pattern of the word to which it is attached. For example, Northern Sami has the causative verb suffix - in which - is selected when it would be the third syllable (and the preceding verb has two syllables), and - is selected when it would be the third and the fourth syllables (and the preceding verb has three syllables): has two syllables and so when suffixed, the result is . has three syllables and so when suffixed, the result is . The same applies to inflectional patterns in the Sami languages as well, which are divided into even stems and odd stems. Stem allomorphy Allomorphy can also exist in stems or roots, as in Classical Sanskrit: There are three allomorphs of the stem, , , and , which are conditioned by the particular case-marking suffixes. The form of the stem , found in the nominative singular and locative plural, is the etymological form of the morpheme. Pre-Indic palatalization of velars resulted in the variant form , which was initially phonologically conditioned. The conditioning can still be seen in the locative singular form, for which the is followed by the high front vowel . However, the subsequent merging of and into made the alternation unpredictable on phonetic grounds in the genitive case (both singular and plural) as well as the nominative plural and the instrumental singular. Thus, allomorphy was no longer directly relatable to phonological processes. Phonological conditioning also accounts for the form in the instrumental plural, in which the assimilates in voicing to the following . History The term was originally used to describe variations in chemical structure. It was first applied to language (in writing) in 1948, by Fatih Şat and Sibel Merve in Language XXIV. See also Null allomorph Alternation (linguistics) Allophone Consonant mutation Grassmann's law Suppletion References Linguistic morphology Morphemes Linguistics terminology
In linguistics, an affix is a morpheme that is attached to a word stem to form a new word or word form. The main two categories are derivational and inflectional affixes. The first ones, such as -un, -ation, anti-, pre- etc, introduce a semantic change to the word they are attached to. The latter ones introduce a syntactic change, such as singular into plural (e.g. -(e)s), or present simple tense into present continuous or past tense by adding -ing, -ed to a word. All of them are bound morphemes by definition; prefixes and suffixes may be separable affixes. Adfixes, infixes and their variations Changing a word by adding a morpheme at its beginning is called prefixation, in the middle is called infixation, and at the end is called suffixation. Prefix and suffix may be subsumed under the term adfix, in contrast to infix. When marking text for interlinear glossing, as in the third column in the chart above, simple affixes such as prefixes and suffixes are separated from the stem with hyphens. Affixes which disrupt the stem, or which themselves are discontinuous, are often marked off with angle brackets. Reduplication is often shown with a tilde. Affixes which cannot be segmented are marked with a back slash. Lexical affixes Semantically speaking, lexical affixes or semantic affixes, when compared with free nouns, often have a more generic or general meaning, for example, one denoting "water in a general sense" may not have a noun equivalent because all the nouns denote more specific meanings such as "saltwater", "whitewater", etc (while in other cases the lexical suffixes have become grammaticalized to various degrees.) Although they behave as incorporated noun roots/stems within verbs and as elements of nouns, they never occur as freestanding nouns. Lexical affixes are relatively rare and are used in Wakashan, Salishan, and Chimakuan languages — the presence of these is an areal feature of the Pacific Northwest of North America - where they show little to no resemblance to free nouns with similar meanings. Compare the lexical suffixes and free nouns of Northern Straits Saanich written in the Saanich orthography and in Americanist notation: Some linguists have claimed that these lexical suffixes provide only adverbial or adjectival notions to verbs. Other linguists disagree arguing that they may additionally be syntactic arguments just as free nouns are and, thus, equating lexical suffixes with incorporated nouns. Gerdts (2003) gives examples of lexical suffixes in the Halkomelem language (the word order here is verb–subject–object): {| class="IPA wikitable" |- style="line-height: 1.0em; font-size: 75%" | | | style="background: #bbbbff" | VERB | style="background: #ffebad" | SUBJ | style="background: #ffbbbb" | OBJ |- | (1) | niʔ | šak’ʷ-ət-əs | łə słeniʔ | łə qeq |- | | colspan="4" | "the woman washed the baby" |- style="line-height: 1.0em; font-size: 75%" | bgcolor=white colspan=5| |- style="line-height: 1.0em; font-size: 75%" | | | style="background: #bbbbff" | VERB+LEX.SUFF | style="background: #ffebad" | SUBJ | |- | (2) | niʔ | šk’ʷ-əyəł | łə słeniʔ | |- | | colspan="4" | "the woman baby-washed" |} In sentence (1), the verb "wash" is šak’ʷətəs where šak’ʷ- is the root and -ət and -əs are inflectional suffixes. The subject "the woman" is łə słeniʔ and the object "the baby" is łə qeq. In this sentence, "the baby" is a free noun. (The niʔ here is an auxiliary, which can be ignored for explanatory purposes.) In sentence (2), "baby" does not appear as a free noun. Instead it appears as the lexical suffix -əyəł which is affixed to the verb root šk’ʷ- (which has changed slightly in pronunciation, but this can also be ignored here). The lexical suffix is neither "the baby" (definite) nor "a baby" (indefinite); such referential changes are routine with incorporated nouns. Orthographic affixes In orthography, the terms for affixes may be used for the smaller elements of conjunct characters. For example, Maya glyphs are generally compounds of a main sign and smaller affixes joined at its margins. These are called prefixes, superfixes, postfixes, and subfixes according to their position to the left, on top, to the right, or at the bottom of the main glyph. A small glyph placed inside another is called an infix. Similar terminology is found with the conjunct consonants of the Indic alphabets. For example, the Tibetan alphabet utilizes prefix, suffix, superfix, and subfix consonant letters. See also Agglutination Augmentative Binary prefix Clitic Combining form Concatenation Diminutive English prefixes Family name affixes Internet-related prefixes Marker (linguistics) Morphological derivation Separable affix SI prefix Stemming - affix removal using computer software Unpaired word Word formation References Bibliography Montler, Timothy. (1986). An outline of the morphology and phonology of Saanich, North Straits Salish. Occasional Papers in Linguistics (No. 4). Missoula, MT: University of Montana Linguistics Laboratory. Montler, Timothy. (1991). Saanich, North Straits Salish classified word list. Canadian Ethnology service paper (No. 119); Mercury series. Hull, Quebec: Canadian Museum of Civilization. External links Comprehensive and searchable affix dictionary reference Lexical units Linguistics terminology
Allotropy or allotropism () is the property of some chemical elements to exist in two or more different forms, in the same physical state, known as allotropes of the elements. Allotropes are different structural modifications of an element: the atoms of the element are bonded together in different manners. For example, the allotropes of carbon include diamond (the carbon atoms are bonded together to form a cubic lattice of tetrahedra), graphite (the carbon atoms are bonded together in sheets of a hexagonal lattice), graphene (single sheets of graphite), and fullerenes (the carbon atoms are bonded together in spherical, tubular, or ellipsoidal formations). The term allotropy is used for elements only, not for compounds. The more general term, used for any compound, is polymorphism, although its use is usually restricted to solid materials such as crystals. Allotropy refers only to different forms of an element within the same physical phase (the state of matter, such as a solid, liquid or gas). The differences between these states of matter would not alone constitute examples of allotropy. Allotropes of chemical elements are frequently referred to as polymorphs or as phases of the element. For some elements, allotropes have different molecular formulae or different crystalline structures, as well as a difference in physical phase; for example, two allotropes of oxygen (dioxygen, O2, and ozone, O3) can both exist in the solid, liquid and gaseous states. Other elements do not maintain distinct allotropes in different physical phases; for example, phosphorus has numerous solid allotropes, which all revert to the same P4 form when melted to the liquid state. History The concept of allotropy was originally proposed in 1840 by the Swedish scientist Baron Jöns Jakob Berzelius (1779–1848). The term is derived . After the acceptance of Avogadro's hypothesis in 1860, it was understood that elements could exist as polyatomic molecules, and two allotropes of oxygen were recognized as O2 and O3. In the early 20th century, it was recognized that other cases such as carbon were due to differences in crystal structure. By 1912, Ostwald noted that the allotropy of elements is just a special case of the phenomenon of polymorphism known for compounds, and proposed that the terms allotrope and allotropy be abandoned and replaced by polymorph and polymorphism. Although many other chemists have repeated this advice, IUPAC and most chemistry texts still favour the usage of allotrope and allotropy for elements only. Differences in properties of an element's allotropes Allotropes are different structural forms of the same element and can exhibit quite different physical properties and chemical behaviours. The change between allotropic forms is triggered by the same forces that affect other structures, i.e., pressure, light, and temperature. Therefore, the stability of the particular allotropes depends on particular conditions. For instance, iron changes from a body-centered cubic structure (ferrite) to a face-centered cubic structure (austenite) above 906 °C, and tin undergoes a modification known as tin pest from a metallic form to a semiconductor form below 13.2 °C (55.8 °F). As an example of allotropes having different chemical behaviour, ozone (O3) is a much stronger oxidizing agent than dioxygen (O2). List of allotropes Typically, elements capable of variable coordination number and/or oxidation states tend to exhibit greater numbers of allotropic forms. Another contributing factor is the ability of an element to catenate. Examples of allotropes include: Non-metals Metalloids Metals Among the metallic elements that occur in nature in significant quantities (56 up to U, without Tc and Pm), almost half (27) are allotropic at ambient pressure: Li, Be, Na, Ca, Ti, Mn, Fe, Co, Sr, Y, Zr, Sn, La, Ce, Pr, Nd, Sm, Gd, Tb, Dy, Yb, Hf, Tl, Th, Pa and U. Some phase transitions between allotropic forms of technologically relevant metals are those of Ti at 882 °C, Fe at 912 °C and 1394 °C, Co at 422 °C, Zr at 863 °C, Sn at 13 °C and U at 668 °C and 776 °C. Lanthanides and actinides Cerium, samarium, dysprosium and ytterbium have three allotropes. Praseodymium, neodymium, gadolinium and terbium have two allotropes. Plutonium has six distinct solid allotropes under "normal" pressures. Their densities vary within a ratio of some 4:3, which vastly complicates all kinds of work with the metal (particularly casting, machining, and storage). A seventh plutonium allotrope exists at very high pressures. The transuranium metals Np, Am, and Cm are also allotropic. Promethium, americium, berkelium and californium have three allotropes each. Nanoallotropes In 2017, the concept of nanoallotropy was proposed by Rafal Klajn of the Organic Chemistry Department of the Weizmann Institute of Science. Nanoallotropes, or allotropes of nanomaterials, are nanoporous materials that have the same chemical composition (e.g., Au), but differ in their architecture at the nanoscale (that is, on a scale 10 to 100 times the dimensions of individual atoms). Such nanoallotropes may help create ultra-small electronic devices and find other industrial applications. The different nanoscale architectures translate into different properties, as was demonstrated for surface-enhanced Raman scattering performed on several different nanoallotropes of gold. A two-step method for generating nanoallotropes was also created. See also Isomer Polymorphism (materials science) Notes References External links Allotropes – Chemistry Encyclopedia Chemistry Inorganic chemistry Physical chemistry
Agathocles (, Agathoklḗs; 361–289 BC) was a Greek tyrant of Syracuse (317–289 BC) and self-styled king of Sicily (304–289 BC). Biography Agathocles was born at Thermae Himeraeae (modern name Termini Imerese), Magna Graecia, in Sicily. The son of a potter who had moved to Syracuse in about 343 BC, he learned his father's trade, but afterwards entered the army along with his brother Antander. In 333 BC he married the widow of his patron Damas, a distinguished and wealthy citizen. He was twice banished for attempting to overthrow the oligarchical party in Syracuse. In 317 BC he returned with an army of mercenaries under a solemn oath to observe the democratic constitution which was established after they took the city. Having massacred the oligarchs and the richest of the citizenry, he thus made himself master of Syracuse, and he created a strong army and fleet and subdued the greater part of Sicily. War with Carthage followed. In 311 BC Agathocles was defeated in the Battle of the Himera River and besieged in Syracuse. In 310 BC he made a desperate effort to break through the blockade and attack Carthage. He landed at Cape Bon in August 310 BC, and was able to defeat the Carthaginians for the first time, and establish a camp near Tunis. He then turned east, and tried to take over trading coastal cities such as Neapolis and Hadrumetum, and on this occasion concluded an alliance with Aelymas, king of the Libyans according to Diodorus of Sicily, in an attempt to surround and isolate Carthage. After capturing Hadrumetum, Thapsus and other coastal towns, Agathocles turned his attention to central Tunisia. Before or during this campaign, he broke his alliance with Ailymas, whom he pursued and killed, but he kept his Numidian army, including war chariots they built. In 309/8 BC, Agathocles began trying to sway Ophellas, ruler of Cyrenaica, as he was likely to prove a useful ally in Agathocles' war against the Carthaginians. In order to gain his allegiance he promised to cede to Ophellas whatever conquests their combined forces might make in Africa, reserving to himself only the possession of Sicily. Ophellas gathered a powerful army from the homeland of his wife Euthydike (a descendant of Miltiades), Athens, where many citizens felt disgruntled after having lost their voting rights. Despite the natural obstacles which presented themselves on his route, Ophellas succeeded in reaching the Carthaginian territories after a toilsome and perilous march of more than two months. He was received by Agathocles with every demonstration of friendship, and the two armies encamped near each other, but a few days later Agathocles betrayed his new ally, by attacking the camp of the Cyrenaeans and having Ophellas killed. The Cyrenean troops, left without a leader, went over to Agathocles. Following several victories he was at last completely defeated (307 BC) and fled secretly to Sicily. After concluding peace with Carthage in 306 BC, Agathocles styled himself king of Sicily in 304 BC, and established his rule over the Greek cities of the island more firmly than ever. A peace treaty with Carthage left him in control of Sicily east of the Halycus River. Even in his old age he displayed the same restless energy, and is said to have been contemplating a fresh attack on Carthage at the time of his death. His last years were plagued by ill-health and the turbulence of his grandson Archagathus, at whose instigation he is said to have been poisoned; according to others, he died a natural death. He was a born leader of mercenaries, and, although he did not shrink from cruelty to gain his ends, he afterwards showed himself a mild and popular "tyrant". Agathocles restored the Syracusan democracy on his death bed and did not want his sons to succeed him as king. Agathocles was married three times. His first wife, by whom he had two sons, was the widow of his patron Damas, Archagathus and his brother, who were both murdered in 307 BC. His second wife was Alcia and they had a daughter called Lanassa, who married as the second wife of King Pyrrhus of Epirus, and a son, Agathocles, who was murdered in a succession dispute shortly before his father's death. His third wife was the Greek Ptolemaic Princess Theoxena, who was the second daughter of Berenice I from her first husband Philip and was a stepdaughter of Ptolemy I Soter. Theoxena bore Agathocles two children: Archagathus and Theoxena. Theoxena survived Agathocles. He had further descendants from his second and third marriage. Legacy Agathocles was cited as an example "Of those who become princes through their crimes" in chapter 8 of Niccolò Machiavelli's treatise on politics - The Prince (1513). He was described as behaving as a criminal at every stage of his career. Machiavelli claimed: Machiavelli goes on to reason that Agathocles' success, in contrast to other criminal tyrants, was due to his ability to commit his crimes quickly and ruthlessly, and states that cruelties are best used when they However, he came to "glory" as much as he did brutality by repelling invading Carthaginians and winning the loyalty of the denizens of his land. Family tree of Agathocles Primary sources Diodorus Siculus Library of History Books 19–21. Justin, Epitome of Pompeius Trogus Book 22. Polyaenus 5.3 Polybius 9.23 References Cited sources Bibliography Further reading External links Coinage of Agathocles Agathocles- Encyclopædia Britannica Agathocles of Syracuse- Ancient History Encyclopedia |width=25% align=center|Preceded by:oligarchy position previously held by Timoleon in 337 BC |width=25% align=center|Tyrant of Syracuse317 BC289 BC |width=25% align=center|Succeeded by:Hicetas |- 361 BC births 289 BC deaths Ancient Greek generals Sicilian tyrants 4th-century BC Syracusans Ancient Himeraeans Greek exiles 3rd-century BC Syracusans 4th-century BC Greek monarchs 3rd-century BC monarchs People of the Sicilian Wars
In geometry, an Archimedean solid is one of 13 convex polyhedra whose faces are regular polygons and whose vertices are all symmetric to each other. They were first enumerated by Archimedes. The convex polyhedra with regular faces and symmetric vertices (the convex uniform polyhedra) include also the five Platonic solids (which are composed of only one type of polygon) and the two infinite families of prisms and antiprisms; these are not counted as Archimedean solids. The pseudorhombicuboctahedron has regular faces, and vertices that are symmetric in a weaker sense; it is also not generally counted as an Archimedean solid. The Archimedean solids are a subset of the Johnson solids, whose regular polygonal faces do not need to meet in identical vertices. In these polyhedra, the vertices are identical, in the sense that a global isometry of the entire solid takes any one vertex to any other. observed that a 14th polyhedron, the elongated square gyrobicupola (or pseudo-rhombicuboctahedron), meets a weaker definition of an Archimedean solid, in which "identical vertices" means merely that the parts of the polyhedron near any two vertices look the same (they have the same shapes of faces meeting around each vertex in the same order and forming the same angles). Grünbaum pointed out a frequent error in which authors define Archimedean solids using some form of this local definition but omit the 14th polyhedron. If only 13 polyhedra are to be listed, the definition must use global symmetries of the polyhedron rather than local neighborhoods. Prisms and antiprisms, whose symmetry groups are the dihedral groups, are generally not considered to be Archimedean solids, even though their faces are regular polygons and their symmetry groups act transitively on their vertices. Excluding these two infinite families, there are 13 Archimedean solids. All the Archimedean solids (but not the elongated square gyrobicupola) can be made via Wythoff constructions from the Platonic solids with tetrahedral, octahedral and icosahedral symmetry. Origin of name The Archimedean solids take their name from Archimedes, who discussed them in a now-lost work. Pappus refers to it, stating that Archimedes listed 13 polyhedra. During the Renaissance, artists and mathematicians valued pure forms with high symmetry, and by around 1620 Johannes Kepler had completed the rediscovery of the 13 polyhedra, as well as defining the prisms, antiprisms, and the non-convex solids known as Kepler-Poinsot polyhedra. (See for more information about the rediscovery of the Archimedean solids during the renaissance.) Kepler may have also found the elongated square gyrobicupola (pseudorhombicuboctahedron): at least, he once stated that there were 14 Archimedean solids. However, his published enumeration only includes the 13 uniform polyhedra, and the first clear statement of the pseudorhombicuboctahedron's existence was made in 1905, by Duncan Sommerville. Classification There are 13 Archimedean solids (not counting the elongated square gyrobicupola; 15 if the mirror images of two enantiomorphs, the snub cube and snub dodecahedron, are counted separately). Here the vertex configuration refers to the type of regular polygons that meet at any given vertex. For example, a vertex configuration of 4.6.8 means that a square, hexagon, and octagon meet at a vertex (with the order taken to be clockwise around the vertex). Some definitions of Semiregular polyhedron include one more figure, the Elongated square gyrobicupola or "pseudo-rhombicuboctahedron". Properties The number of vertices is 720° divided by the vertex angle defect. The cuboctahedron and icosidodecahedron are edge-uniform and are called quasi-regular. The duals of the Archimedean solids are called the Catalan solids. Together with the bipyramids and trapezohedra, these are the face-uniform solids with regular vertices. Chirality The snub cube and snub dodecahedron are known as chiral, as they come in a left-handed form (Latin: levomorph or laevomorph) and right-handed form (Latin: dextromorph). When something comes in multiple forms which are each other's three-dimensional mirror image, these forms may be called enantiomorphs. (This nomenclature is also used for the forms of certain chemical compounds.) Construction of Archimedean solids The different Archimedean and Platonic solids can be related to each other using a handful of general constructions. Starting with a Platonic solid, truncation involves cutting away of corners. To preserve symmetry, the cut is in a plane perpendicular to the line joining a corner to the center of the polyhedron and is the same for all corners. Depending on how much is truncated (see table below), different Platonic and Archimedean (and other) solids can be created. If the truncation is exactly deep enough such that each pair of faces from adjacent vertices shares exactly one point, it is known as a rectification. An expansion, or cantellation, involves moving each face away from the center (by the same distance so as to preserve the symmetry of the Platonic solid) and taking the convex hull. Expansion with twisting also involves rotating the faces, thus splitting each rectangle corresponding to an edge into two triangles by one of the diagonals of the rectangle. The last construction we use here is truncation of both corners and edges. Ignoring scaling, expansion can also be viewed as the rectification of the rectification. Likewise, the cantitruncation can be viewed as the truncation of the rectification. Note the duality between the cube and the octahedron, and between the dodecahedron and the icosahedron. Also, partially because the tetrahedron is self-dual, only one Archimedean solid that has at most tetrahedral symmetry. (All Platonic solids have at least tetrahedral symmetry, as tetrahedral symmetry is a symmetry operation of (i.e. is included in) octahedral and isohedral symmetries, which is demonstrated by the fact that an octahedron can be viewed as a rectified tetrahedron, and an icosahedron can be used as a snub tetrahedron.) Stereographic projection See also Aperiodic tiling Archimedean graph Icosahedral twins List of uniform polyhedra Prince Rupert's cube#Generalizations Quasicrystal Regular polyhedron Semiregular polyhedron Toroidal polyhedron Uniform polyhedron Citations Works cited . Reprinted in . . General references . Chapter 2 (Section 3–9) . External links Archimedean Solids by Eric W. Weisstein, Wolfram Demonstrations Project. Paper models of Archimedean Solids and Catalan Solids Free paper models(nets) of Archimedean solids The Uniform Polyhedra by Dr. R. Mäder Archimedean Solids at Visual Polyhedra by David I. McCooey Virtual Reality Polyhedra, The Encyclopedia of Polyhedra by George W. Hart Penultimate Modular Origami by James S. Plank Interactive 3D polyhedra in Java Solid Body Viewer is an interactive 3D polyhedron viewer which allows you to save the model in svg, stl or obj format. Stella: Polyhedron Navigator: Software used to create many of the images on this page. Paper Models of Archimedean (and other) Polyhedra
In geometry, an antiprism or is a polyhedron composed of two parallel direct copies (not mirror images) of an polygon, connected by an alternating band of triangles. They are represented by the Conway notation . Antiprisms are a subclass of prismatoids, and are a (degenerate) type of snub polyhedron. Antiprisms are similar to prisms, except that the bases are twisted relatively to each other, and that the side faces (connecting the bases) are triangles, rather than quadrilaterals. The dual polyhedron of an -gonal antiprism is an -gonal trapezohedron. History At the intersection of modern-day graph theory and coding theory, the triangulation of a set of points have interested mathematicians since Isaac Newton, who fruitlessly sought a mathematical proof of the kissing number problem in 1694. The existence of antiprisms was discussed, and their name was coined by Johannes Kepler, though it is possible that they were previously known to Archimedes, as they satisfy the same conditions on faces and on vertices as the Archimedean solids. According to Ericson and Zinoviev, Harold Scott MacDonald Coxeter wrote at length on the topic, and was among the first to apply the mathematics of Victor Schlegel to this field. Knowledge in this field is "quite incomplete" and "was obtained fairly recently", i.e. in the 20th century. For example, as of 2001 it had been proven for only a limited number of non-trivial cases that the -gonal antiprism is the mathematically optimal arrangement of points in the sense of maximizing the minimum Euclidean distance between any two points on the set: in 1943 by László Fejes Tóth for 4 and 6 points (digonal and trigonal antiprisms, which are Platonic solids); in 1951 by Kurt Schütte and Bartel Leendert van der Waerden for 8 points (tetragonal antiprism, which is not a cube). The chemical structure of binary compounds has been remarked to be in the family of antiprisms; especially those of the family of boron hydrides (in 1975) and carboranes because they are isoelectronic. This is a mathematically real conclusion reached by studies of X-ray diffraction patterns, and stems from the 1971 work of Kenneth Wade, the nominative source for Wade's rules of polyhedral skeletal electron pair theory. Rare-earth metals such as the lanthanides form antiprismatic compounds with some of the halides or some of the iodides. The study of crystallography is useful here. Some lanthanides, when arranged in peculiar antiprismatic structures with chlorine and water, can form molecule-based magnets. Right antiprism For an antiprism with regular -gon bases, one usually considers the case where these two copies are twisted by an angle of degrees. The axis of a regular polygon is the line perpendicular to the polygon plane and lying in the polygon centre. For an antiprism with congruent regular -gon bases, twisted by an angle of degrees, more regularity is obtained if the bases have the same axis: are coaxial; i.e. (for non-coplanar bases): if the line connecting the base centers is perpendicular to the base planes. Then the antiprism is called a right antiprism, and its side faces are isosceles triangles. Uniform antiprism A uniform -antiprism has two congruent regular -gons as base faces, and equilateral triangles as side faces. Uniform antiprisms form an infinite class of vertex-transitive polyhedra, as do uniform prisms. For , we have the regular tetrahedron as a digonal antiprism (degenerate antiprism); for , the regular octahedron as a triangular antiprism (non-degenerate antiprism). Schlegel diagrams Cartesian coordinates Cartesian coordinates for the vertices of a right -antiprism (i.e. with regular -gon bases and isosceles triangle side faces) are: where ; if the -antiprism is uniform (i.e. if the triangles are equilateral), then: Volume and surface area Let be the edge-length of a uniform -gonal antiprism; then the volume is: and the surface area is: Furthermore, the volume of a right -gonal antiprism with side length of its bases and height is given by: Note that the volume of a right -gonal prism with the same and is: which is smaller than that of an antiprism. Related polyhedra There are an infinite set of truncated antiprisms, including a lower-symmetry form of the truncated octahedron (truncated triangular antiprism). These can be alternated to create snub antiprisms, two of which are Johnson solids, and the snub triangular antiprism is a lower symmetry form of the regular icosahedron. Four-dimensional antiprisms can be defined as having two dual polyhedra as parallel opposite faces, so that each three-dimensional face between them comes from two dual parts of the polyhedra: a vertex and a dual polygon, or two dual edges. Every three-dimensional polyhedron is combinatorially equivalent to one of the two opposite faces of a four-dimensional antiprism, constructed from its canonical polyhedron and its polar dual. However, there exist four-dimensional polyhedra that cannot be combined with their duals to form five-dimensional antiprisms. Symmetry The symmetry group of a right -antiprism (i.e. with regular bases and isosceles side faces) is of order , except in the cases of: : the regular tetrahedron, which has the larger symmetry group of order , which has three versions of as subgroups; : the regular octahedron, which has the larger symmetry group of order , which has four versions of as subgroups. The symmetry group contains inversion if and only if is odd. The rotation group is of order , except in the cases of: : the regular tetrahedron, which has the larger rotation group of order , which has three versions of as subgroups; : the regular octahedron, which has the larger rotation group of order , which has four versions of as subgroups. Note: The right -antiprisms have congruent regular -gon bases and congruent isosceles triangle side faces, thus have the same (dihedral) symmetry group as the uniform -antiprism, for . Star antiprism Uniform star antiprisms are named by their star polygon bases, {p/q}, and exist in prograde and in retrograde (crossed) solutions. Crossed forms have intersecting vertex figures, and are denoted by "inverted" fractions: p/(p – q) instead of p/q; example: 5/3 instead of 5/2. A right star antiprism has two congruent coaxial regular convex or star polygon base faces, and 2n isosceles triangle side faces. Any star antiprism with regular convex or star polygon bases can be made a right star antiprism (by translating and/or twisting one of its bases, if necessary). In the retrograde forms but not in the prograde forms, the triangles joining the convex or star bases intersect the axis of rotational symmetry. Thus: Retrograde star antiprisms with regular convex polygon bases cannot have all equal edge lengths, so cannot be uniform. "Exception": a retrograde star antiprism with equilateral triangle bases (vertex configuration: 3.3/2.3.3) can be uniform; but then, it has the appearance of an equilateral triangle: it is a degenerate star polyhedron. Similarly, some retrograde star antiprisms with regular star polygon bases cannot have all equal edge lengths, so cannot be uniform. Example: a retrograde star antiprism with regular star 7/5-gon bases (vertex configuration: 3.3.3.7/5) cannot be uniform. Also, star antiprism compounds with regular star p/q-gon bases can be constructed if p and q have common factors. Example: a star 10/4-antiprism is the compound of two star 5/2-antiprisms. See also Apeirogonal antiprism Grand antiprism – a four-dimensional polytope One World Trade Center, a building consisting primarily of an elongated square antiprism Skew polygon References Chapter 2: Archimedean polyhedra, prisms and antiprisms Nonconvex Prisms and Antiprisms Paper models of prisms and antiprisms Uniform polyhedra Prismatoid polyhedra Topological graph theory Graph drawing Coxeter groups Elementary geometry Polyhedra Polytopes Triangulation (geometry) Knot invariants
The natural history of Africa encompasses some of the well known megafauna of that continent. Natural history is the study and description of organisms and natural objects, especially their origins, evolution, and interrelationships. Flora The vegetation of Africa follows very closely the distribution of heat and moisture. The northern and southern temperate zones have a flora distinct from that of the continent generally, which is tropical. In the countries bordering the Mediterranean, there are groves of orange and olive trees, evergreen oaks, cork trees and pines, intermixed with cypresses, myrtles, arbutus and fragrant tree-heaths. South of the Atlas range, the conditions alter. The zones of minimum rainfall have a very scanty flora, consisting of plants adapted to resist the great dryness. Characteristic of the Sahara is the date palm, which flourishes where other vegetation can scarcely maintain existence, while in the semidesert regions the acacia, from which gum arabic is obtained, is abundant. The more humid regions have a richer vegetation; dense forest where the rainfall is greatest and variations of temperature least, conditions found chiefly on the tropical coasts, and in the west African equatorial basin with its extension towards the upper Nile; and savanna interspersed with trees on the greater part of the plateaus, passing as the desert regions are approached into a scrub vegetation consisting of thorny acacias, etc. Forests also occur on the humid slopes of mountain ranges up to a certain elevation. In the coast regions, the typical tree is the mangrove, which flourishes wherever the soil is of a swamp character. The dense forests of West Africa contain, in addition to a great variety of hardwoods, two palms, Elaeis guineensis (oil palm) and Raphia vinifera (bamboo palm), not found, generally speaking, in the savanna regions. Bombax or silk cotton trees attain gigantic proportions in the forests, which are the home of the India rubber-producing plants and of many valuable kinds of timber trees, such as odum (Chlorophora excelsa), ebony, mahogany (Khaya senegalensis), Oldfieldia (Oldfieldia africana) and camwood (Baphia nitida). The climbing plants in the tropical forests are exceedingly luxuriant and the undergrowth or "bush" is extremely dense. In the savannas the most characteristic trees are the monkey-bread tree or baobab (Adansonia digitata), doum palm (Hyphaene) and euphorbias. The coffee plant grows wild in such widely separated places as Liberia and southern Ethiopia. The higher mountains have a special flora showing close agreement over wide intervals of space, as well as affinities with the mountain flora of the eastern Mediterranean, the Himalaya and Indo-China. In the swamp regions of north-east Africa, papyrus and associated plants, including the soft-wooded ambach, flourished in immense quantities, and little else is found in the way of vegetation. South Africa is largely destitute of forest, save in the lower valleys and coast regions. Tropical flora disappears, and in the semi-desert plains the fleshy, leafless, contorted species of kapsias, mesembryanthemums, aloes and other succulent plants make their appearance. There are, too, valuable timber trees, such as the yellowwood (Podocarpus elongatus), stinkwood (Ocotea), sneezewood or Cape ebony (Pteroxylon utile) and ironwood. Extensive miniature woods of heaths are found in almost endless variety and covered throughout the greater part of the year with innumerable blossoms in which red is very prevalent. Of the grasses of Africa, alfa is very abundant in the plateaus of the Atlas range. Fauna The fauna again shows the effect of the characteristics of the vegetation. The open savannas are the home of large ungulates, especially antelopes, the giraffe (peculiar to Africa), zebra, buffalo, wild donkey and four species of rhinoceros; and of carnivores, such as the lion, leopard, hyena, etc. The okapi (a genus restricted to Africa) is found only in the dense forests of the Congo basin. Bears are confined to the Atlas region, wolves and foxes to North Africa. The elephant (though its range has become restricted through the attacks of hunters) is found both in the savannas and forest regions, the latter being otherwise poor in large game, though the special habitat of the chimpanzee and gorilla. Baboons and mandrills, with few exceptions, are peculiar to Africa. The single-humped camel, as a domestic animal, is especially characteristic of the northern deserts and steppes. The rivers in the tropical zone abound with hippopotami and crocodiles, the former entirely confined to Africa. The vast herds of game, formerly so characteristic of many parts of Africa, have much diminished with the increase of intercourse with the interior. Game reserves have, however, been established in South Africa, Central Africa, East Africa, Somaliland, etc., while measures for the protection of wild animals were laid down in an international convention signed in May 1900. The ornithology of northern Africa presents a close resemblance to that of southern Europe, scarcely a species being found which does not also occur in the other countries bordering the Mediterranean. Among the birds most characteristic of Africa are the ostrich and the secretarybird. The ostrich is widely dispersed, but is found chiefly in the desert and steppe regions. The secretarybird is common in the south. The weaver birds and their allies, including the long-tailed whydahs, are abundant, as are, among game-birds, the francolin and guineafowl. Many of the smaller birds, such as the sunbirds, bee-eaters, the parrots and kingfishers, as well as the larger plantain-eaters, are noted for the brilliance of their feathers. Of reptiles, the lizard and chameleon are common, and there are a number of venomous snakes, though these are not so numerous as in other tropical countries. The scorpion is abundant. Of insects, Africa has many thousand different kinds; of these the locust is the proverbial scourge of the continent, and the ravages of the termites are almost incredible. The spread of malaria by means of mosquitoes is common. The tsetse fly, whose bite is fatal to all domestic animals, is common in many districts of South and East Africa. It is found nowhere outside Africa. See also Ecology References
Alarums and Excursions (A&E) is an amateur press association (APA) started in June 1975 by Lee Gold; publication continues to the present day. It was one of the first publications to focus solely on role-playing games. History In 1964, Bruce Pelz of the Los Angeles Science Fiction Society (LASFS) began a weekly amateur press association named APA-L. In 1974, with the publication of Dungeons & Dragons by TSR, Inc., articles and comments about the new roleplaying game began to fill the pages of APA-L, a development to which Pelz objected. Lee Gold took note of this and started a new APA, Alarums and Excursions (the title taken from an Elizabethan drama stage direction that moved soldiers across a stage), to focus entirely on roleplaying games, attracting such material away from APA-L. The first issue appeared in June 1975. In addition to removing roleplaying games discussion out of APA-L, the initial aim of the publication was to prevent roleplaying games from becoming so divergent that people from different cities could not participate in games together. The June 2017 issue of Alarums and Excursions was number 500, with a color cover drawn by Lee Moyer and printed by Rob Heinsoo. Contents Each issue is a collection of contributions from different authors, often featuring game design discussions, rules variants, write-ups of game sessions, reviews, and comments on others contributions. Although game reports and social reactions are common parts of many A&E contributions, it has also, over the years, become a testing ground for new ideas on the development of the RPG as a genre and an art form. The idea that role-playing games are an art form took strong root in this zine, and left a lasting impression on many of the RPG professionals who contributed. The 1992 role-playing game Over the Edge was inspired by discussions in A&E. Over the years, contributors have included: Terry K. Amthor Wilf K. Backhaus Scott Bennie Greg Costikyan Doc Cross John M. Ford E. Gary Gygax Andrew Gelman David A. Hargrave Rob Heinsoo John Eric Holmes Wes Ives Robin Laws Nicole Lindroos Stephen R. Marsh Phil McGregor Dave Nalle Mark Rein·Hagen Ken Rolston John T. Sapienza, Jr. Lawrence M. Schoen Edward E. Simbalist Jonathan Tweet Erick Wujcik John Nephew Spike Y Jones Reception In the February 1976 issue of Strategic Review (Issue 6), Gary Gygax complimented the new APA, calling it "an excellent source of ideas, inspirations and fun." Although Gygax felt some of the contributors were "woefully lacking in background", and the quality of printing varied dramatically from issue to issue, he concluded, "For all of its faults, it is far and away the best D&D 'zine, and well worth reading. See for yourself why it rates a Major Triumph." In the June 1981 edition of Dragon (Issue #50), Dave Nalle reviewed Alarums and Excursions after its 63rd issue (November 1980), and although he found the writing style "a bit stuffy", with a "tendency for the writers to pat each other on the back", he still called it "the top APA publication... This is a very well run APA and features many of the leading thinkers in fantasy gaming." Awards To date, Alarums and Excursions has been a winner of the Charles Roberts/Origins Award four times: "Best Amateur Adventure Gaming Magazine" in 1984 "Best Amateur Game Magazine" in 1999 "Best Amateur Game Periodical" in 2000 and 2001 "Academy of Adventure Gaming Arts & Design Hall of Fame" in 2022 References External links Alarums and Excursions page Lee Gold's index of APA-L's pre-A&E D&D-related content Fanzines Magazines established in 1975 Organizations established in 1975 Origins Award winners Role-playing game magazines Science fiction organizations Magazines published in Los Angeles
Amalric or Amalaric (also Americ, Almerich, Emeric, Emerick and other variations) is a personal name derived from the tribal name Amal (referring to the Gothic Amali) and ric (Gothic reiks) meaning "ruler, prince". Equivalents in different languages include: French: Amaury (surname/given name), Amalric (surname), Amaurich (surname), Maury (surname) German: Amalrich, Emmerich Italian: Amerigo, Arrigo Hungarian: Imre Latin: Amalricus, Americus, Almericus, Emericus Greek: Emerikos Polish: Amalaryk, Amalryk, Emeryk Dutch: Emmerik, Amerik, Hamelink, Hamelryck Portuguese: Amauri, Américo, América Spanish: Américo Serbo-Croatian: Emerik Given name Amalaric (502–531), King of the Visigoths from 526 to 531 Malaric (fl. 585), King of the Suevi Amaury, Count of Valenciennes (fl.953-973) Amalric of Nesle (fl. 1151–1180), Patriarch of Jerusalem from 1158 to 1180 Amalric I of Jerusalem (1136–1174), King of Jerusalem from 1162 to 1174 Amalric II of Jerusalem (fl. 1155–1205), King of Jerusalem from 1197 to 1205 Amalric of Bena (f. 1200–1204), French theologian Arnaud Amalric (fl. 1196–1225), seventeenth abbot of Citeaux Amaury de Montfort (disambiguation), several individuals including: Amaury de Montfort (died 1241) (1195–1241), crusader Amalric, Lord of Tyre (c. 1272 – 1310), Governor of Cyprus from 1306 to 1310 Amerigo Vespucci (1451-1512), Italian merchant, explorer, and navigator from the Republic of Florence, from whose name the term "America" is derived. Surname Arnaud Amalric (died 1225), Cistercian abbot Catherine Amalric (born 1964), French politician Mathieu Amalric (born 1965), French actor and director Leonid Amalrik (1905–1997), Soviet animator Andrei Amalrik (1938–1980), Soviet dissident See also Amaury (disambiguation), a French alternative spelling Emery (name) Masculine given names
Anthemius of Tralles (, Medieval Greek: , Anthémios o Trallianós; – 533 558) was a Byzantine Greek from Tralles who worked as a geometer and architect in Constantinople, the capital of the Byzantine Empire. With Isidore of Miletus, he designed the Hagia Sophia for Justinian I. Life Anthemius was one of the five sons of Stephanus of Tralles, a physician. His brothers were Dioscorus, Alexander, Olympius, and Metrodorus. Dioscorus followed his father's profession in Tralles; Alexander did so in Rome and became one of the most celebrated medical men of his time; Olympius became a noted lawyer; and Metrodorus worked as a grammarian in Constantinople. Anthemius was said to have annoyed his neighbor Zeno in two ways: first, by engineering a miniature earthquake by sending steam through leather tubes he had fixed among the joists and flooring of Zeno's parlor while he was entertaining friends and, second, by simulating thunder and lightning and flashing intolerable light into Zeno's eyes from a slightly hollowed mirror. In addition to his familiarity with steam, some dubious authorities credited Anthemius with a knowledge of gunpowder or other explosive compound. Mathematics Anthemius was a capable mathematician. In the course of his treatise On Burning Mirrors, he intended to facilitate the construction of surfaces to reflect light to a single point, he described the string construction of the ellipse and assumed a property of ellipses not found in Apollonius of Perga's Conics: the equality of the angles subtended at a focus by two tangents drawn from a point. His work also includes the first practical use of the directrix: having given the focus and a double ordinate, he used the focus and directrix to obtain any number of points on a parabola. This work was later known to Arab mathematicians such as Alhazen. Eutocius's commentary on Apollonius's Conics was dedicated to Anthemius. Architecture As an architect, Anthemius is best known for his work designing the Hagia Sophia. He was commissioned with Isidore of Miletus by Justinian I shortly after the earlier church on the site burned down in 532 but died early on in the project. He is also said to have repaired the flood defenses at Daras. Notes References . Attribution: Further reading Editions of Anthemius's "On Burning-Glasses": . . . External links . 470s births 6th-century deaths Byzantine architects 5th-century mathematicians 6th-century mathematicians Greek Christians People from Tralles Justinian I 5th-century Byzantine people 5th-century Byzantine scientists 6th-century Byzantine scientists 6th-century Byzantine writers 6th-century architects Hagia Sophia
Adhemar (also known as Adémar, Aimar, or Aelarz) de Monteil (died 1 August 1098) was one of the principal figures of the First Crusade and was bishop of Puy-en-Velay from before 1087. He was the chosen representative of Pope Urban II for the expedition to the Holy Land. Remembered for his martial prowess, he led knights and men into battle and fought beside them, particularly at the Battle of Dorylaeum and Siege of Antioch. Adhemar is said to have carried the Holy Lance in the Crusaders’ desperate breakout at Antioch on 28 June 1098, in which superior Islamic forces under the atabeg Kerbogha were routed, securing the city for the Crusaders. He died in 1098 due to illness. Life Born around 1045 into the family of the Counts of Valentinois and elected Bishop of Le Puy around 1080, he was an advocate of the Gregorian Reform. Among his supporters were the future Pope Urban II and Raymond of Saint-Gilles, Count of Toulouse and the richest, most powerful nobleman in France. He was also said to have gone on pilgrimage to Jerusalem around 1086. He was the brother of William Hugh of Monteil, who was also a Crusader in the First Crusade. Adhemar most likely met Pope Urban II, when he visited Puy in August 1095. At the Council of Clermont in 1095, Adhemar showed great zeal for the crusade (there is evidence that Urban II had conferred with Adhemar before the council). Adhemar was named apostolic legate and appointed to lead the crusade by Pope Urban II on 27 November 1095. In part, Adhemar was selected to lead because he had already undertaken a pilgrimage to Jerusalem in 1086 and 1087. Following the announcement of the Crusade Adhemar spent the next year raising money and recruiting men. Departing on 15 August 1096, he accompanied Raymond of Toulouse and his army to the east. Whilst Raymond and the other leaders often quarrelled with each other over the leadership of the crusade, Adhemar was always recognized as the spiritual leader of the crusade and was widely respected by the majority of the Crusaders. During the leg of the trip from Durazzo to Constantinople, in the Valley of Pelagonia, Adhemar was set upon by a group of Pecheneg mercenaries, when he had wandered too far from the majority of the Crusader forces. The Pechenegs beat and robbed Adhemar, but began to fight among themselves over his belongings; Adhemar was saved by Crusader forces who had noticed the disturbance. Once the army had reached Thessalonica, Adhemar decided to stay there for some time, due to sickness, whilst the Crusader forces moved onward. Adhemar eventually was able to rejoin the Crusaders. Adhemar negotiated with Alexius I Comnenus at Constantinople, reestablished some discipline among the crusaders at Nicaea, fought a crucial role at the Battle of Dorylaeum and was largely responsible for sustaining morale during the siege of Antioch through various religious rites including fasting and special observances of holy days. One such time he did this, was after an earthquake during the siege of Antioch, he had the Crusaders fast for three days and had the priests and clergy perform mass and prayers. Adhemar also ordered the Crusaders to shave and wear a cross in an attempt to stop Crusaders from attacking one another by accident. After the capture of the city in June 1098 and the subsequent siege led by Kerbogha, Adhemar organized a procession through the streets and had the gates locked so that the Crusaders, many of whom had begun to panic, would be unable to leave the city. He was extremely skeptical of Peter Bartholomew's discovery in Antioch of the Holy Lance, especially because he knew such a relic already existed in Constantinople; however, he was willing to let the Crusader army believe it was real if it raised their morale. Adhemar was protected by a band of Crusaders led by Henry of Esch to preserve the (albeit suspect) relic. In June 1098 Adhemar fell prey to sickness and in the following months his condition would deteriorate. When Kerbogha was defeated, Adhemar organized a council in an attempt to settle the leadership disputes, but died on 1 August 1098, probably of typhus. Adhemar was buried in Antioch within the Basilica of St Peter. The disputes among the higher nobles went unsolved and the march to Jerusalem was delayed for months. However, the lower-class soldiers continued to think of Adhemar as a leader. Following his death, Adhemar reportedly appeared in several visions of various Crusaders. One of the first was reported by Peter Bartholomew who stated that Adhemar appeared to him stating that, due to his skepticism of the Holy Lance, he had spent a few days in hell and was only rescued because a candle had been burned in his memory, he had given a gift to the Shrine where the Holy Lance was kept, and due to the prayers of Bohemond. At the siege of Jerusalem, Peter Desiderius claimed that to have received a vision from Adhemar himself. Peter also claimed that, in this vision, Adhemar had instructed him to have the Crusaders fast and lead a procession around the Walls of Jerusalem. This was done and Jerusalem was taken by the Crusaders in 1099. Later, Stephen of Valence also claimed to have had visions featuring Adhemar in which Adhemar spoke to Stephen of several relics. Adhemar told Stephen great reverence should be given to the cross Adhemar had taken with him on the crusade. He also told Stephen how the Holy Lance should be treated and told Stephen to give Stephen's ring to Count Raymond. He told Stephen that, through this ring, Count Raymond would be able to call upon the power of Mary. References Sources Murray, Alan V., "The Army of Godfrey of Bouillon, 1096–1099: Structure and Dynamics of a Contingent on the First Crusade" (PDF), Revue belge de philologie et d'histoire, 1992 Runciman, Steven, A History of the Crusades, Volume I: The First Crusade and the Foundation of the Kingdom of Jerusalem, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1951 Riley-Smith, The First Crusaders, 1095–1131, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1997 Edgington, Susan, Albert of Aachen: Historia Ierosolimitana, History of the Journey to Jerusalem, Clarendon Press, 2007 (available on Google Books) External links Medieval Sourcebook: Speech by Urban II at Council of Clermont, 1095 (Five versions of the Speech) Christians of the First Crusade 11th-century French Roman Catholic bishops Bishops of Le Puy-en-Velay 1098 deaths Year of birth unknown 1040s births
Alphonse or Alfonso (11 November 122021 August 1271) was the count of Poitou from 1225 and count of Toulouse (as such called Alphonse II) from 1249. As count of Toulouse, he also governed the Marquisate of Provence. Birth and early life Born at Poissy, Alphonse was a son of King Louis VIII of France and Blanche of Castile. He was a younger brother of King Louis IX of France and an older brother of Count Charles I of Anjou. In 1229, his mother, who was regent of France, forced the Treaty of Paris on Count Raymond VII of Toulouse after his rebellion. It stipulated that a brother of King Louis was to marry Joan, daughter of Raymond VII of Toulouse, and so in 1237 Alphonse married her. Since she was Raymond's only child, they became rulers of Toulouse at Raymond's death in 1249. By the terms of his father's will Alphonse received an appanage of Poitou and Auvergne. To enforce this Louis IX won the battle of Taillebourg in the Saintonge War together with Alphonse against a revolt allied with King Henry III of England, who also participated in the battle. Crusades Alphonse took part in two crusades with his brother, St Louis, in 1248 (the Seventh Crusade) and in 1270 (the Eighth Crusade). For the first of these, he raised a large sum and a substantial force, arriving in Damietta on 24 October 1249, after the town had already been captured. He sailed for home on 10 August 1250. His father-in-law had died while he was away, and he went directly to Toulouse to take possession. There was some resistance to his accession as count, which was suppressed with the help of his mother Blanche of Castile who was acting as regent in the absence of Louis IX. Later life In 1252, on the death of his mother, Blanche of Castile, Alphonse was joint regent with Charles of Anjou until the return of Louis IX. During that time he took a great part in the campaigns and negotiations which led to the Treaty of Paris in 1259, under which King Henry III of England recognized his loss of continental territory to France (including Normandy, Maine, Anjou, and Poitou) in exchange for France withdrawing support from English rebels. Aside from the crusades, Alphonse stayed primarily in Paris, governing his estates by officials, inspectors who reviewed the officials' work, and a constant stream of messages. His main work was on his own estates. There he repaired the evils of the Albigensian war and made a first attempt at administrative centralization, thus preparing the way for union with the crown. On 8 October 1268, Alphonse had all Jews throughout his lands arrested and their property confiscated. When Louis IX formed the Eighth Crusade, Alphonse again raised a large sum of money and accompanied his brother. This time, however, he did not return to France, dying while on his way back, at Savona in Italy, on 21 August 1271. Death and legacy Alphonse's death without heirs raised some questions as to the succession to his lands. One possibility was that they should revert to the crown, another that they should be redistributed to his family. The latter was claimed by Charles of Anjou, but in 1283 Parlement decided that the County of Toulouse should revert to the crown, if there were no male heirs. Alphonse's wife Joan (who died four days after Alphonse) had attempted to dispose of some of her inherited lands in her will. Joan was the only surviving child and heiress of Raymond VII, Count of Toulouse, Duke of Narbonne, and Marquis of Provence, so under Provençal and French law, the lands should have gone to her nearest male relative. But, her will was invalidated by Parlement in 1274. One specific bequest in Alphonse's will, giving his wife's lands in the Comtat Venaissin to the Holy See, was allowed, and it became a Papal territory, a status that it retained until 1791. See also Abraham of Aragon References Sources |- |- 1220 births 1271 deaths People from Poissy Counts of Toulouse Counts of Poitiers Christians of the Seventh Crusade Christians of the Eighth Crusade 13th-century peers of France Children of Louis VIII of France Prisoners and detainees of the Abbasid Caliphate Sons of kings
Alfonso Jordan, also spelled Alfons Jordan or Alphonse Jourdain (1103–1148), was the Count of Tripoli (1105–09), Count of Rouergue (1109–48) and Count of Toulouse, Margrave of Provence and Duke of Narbonne (1112–48). Life Alfonso was the son of Raymond IV of Toulouse by his third wife, Elvira of Castile. He was born in the castle of Mont Pèlerin in Tripoli while his father was on the First Crusade. He was given the name "Jourdain" after being baptised in the Jordan River. Alfonso's father died when he was two years old and he remained under the guardianship of his cousin, William Jordan, Count of Cerdagne, until he was five. He was then taken to Europe, where his half-brother Bertrand had given him the county of Rouergue. Upon Bertrand's death in 1112, Alfonso succeeded to the county of Toulouse and marquisate of Provence. In 1114, Duke William IX of Aquitaine, who claimed Toulouse by right of his wife Philippa, daughter of Count William IV, invaded the county and conquered it. Alfonso recovered a part in 1119, but he was not in full control until 1123. When at last successful, he was excommunicated by Pope Callixtus II for having damaged the abbey of Saint-Gilles and assaulting the monks. Alfonso next had to fight for his rights in Provence against Count Raymond Berengar III of Barcelona. Not until September 1125 did their war end in "peace and concord" (pax et concordia). At this stage, Alfonso was master of the regions lying between the Pyrenees and the Alps, the Auvergne and the sea. His ascendancy was, according to one commentator, an unmixed good to the country, for during a period of fourteen years art and industry flourished. In March 1126, Alfonso was at the court of Alfonso VII of León when he acceded to the throne. According to the Chronica Adefonsi imperatoris, Alfonso and Suero Vermúdez took the city of León from opposition magnates and handed it over to Alfonso VII. Among those who may have accompanied Alfonso on one of his many extended stays in Spain was the troubadour Marcabru. By 1132, Alfonso was embroiled in a succession war over the county of Melgueil against Berenguer Ramon, Count of Provence. This brief conflict was resolved with Alfonso's defeat and Berenguer marrying Beatrice, heiress of Melgueil. Alfonso seized the viscounty of Narbonne in 1134, and ruled it during the minority of the Viscountess Ermengarde, only restoring it to her in 1143. In 1141 King Louis VII pressed the claim of Philippa on behalf of his wife, Eleanor of Aquitaine, even besieging Toulouse, but without result. That same year Alfonso Jordan was again in Spain, making a pilgrimage to Saint James of Compostela, when he proposed a peace between the king of León and García VI of Navarre, which became the basis for subsequent negotiations. In 1144, Alfonso again incurred the displeasure of the church by siding with the citizens of Montpellier against their lord. In 1145, Bernard of Clairvaux addressed a letter to him full of concern about a heretic named Henry in the diocese of Toulouse. Bernard even went there to preach against the heresy, an early expression of Catharism. A second time he was excommunicated; but in 1146 he took the cross (i.e., vowed to go on crusade) at a meeting in Vézelay called by Louis VII. In August 1147, he embarked for the near east on the Second Crusade. He lingered on the way in Italy and probably in Constantinople, where he may have met the Emperor Manuel I. Alfonso finally arrived at Acre in 1148. He died at Caesarea, which was followed by accusations of poisoning, levelled against either Eleanor of Aquitaine, wife of Louis VII of France, or Melisende, the mother of King Baldwin III of Jerusalem, who may have wanted to eliminate him as a rival to her brother-in-law Raymond II. Alfonso and Faydiva d'Uzès had: Raymond, who succeeded him Alphonse Faydiva (died 1154), married to Count Humbert III of Savoy Agnes (died 1187) Laurentia, who married Count Bernard III of Comminges He also had an illegitimate son, Bertrand. Notes Sources 156 1103 births 1148 deaths People temporarily excommunicated by the Catholic Church Counts of Tripoli Counts of Toulouse Dukes of Narbonne Margraves of Provence Occitan nobility House of Rouergue Christians of the Second Crusade
Ambroise, sometimes Ambroise of Normandy, (flourished ) was a Norman poet and chronicler of the Third Crusade, author of a work called , which describes in rhyming Old French verse the adventures of as a crusader. The poem is known to us only through one Vatican manuscript, and long escaped the notice of historians. The credit for detecting its value belongs to Gaston Paris, although his edition (1897) was partially anticipated by the editors of the , who published some selections in the twenty-seventh volume of their Scriptores (1885). Ambroise followed Richard I as a noncombatant, and not improbably as a court-minstrel. He speaks as an eyewitness of the king's doings at Messina, in Cyprus, at the siege of Acre, and in the abortive campaign which followed the capture of that city. Ambroise is surprisingly accurate in his chronology; though he did not complete his work before 1195, it is evidently founded upon notes which he had taken in the course of his pilgrimage. He shows no greater political insight than we should expect from his position; but relates what he had seen and heard with a naïve vivacity which compels attention. He is by no means an impartial source: he is prejudiced against the Saracens, against the French, and against all the rivals or enemies of his master, including the Polein party which supported Conrad of Montferrat against Guy of Lusignan. He is rather to be treated as a biographer than as a historian of the Crusade in its broader aspects. Nonetheless he is an interesting primary source for the events of the years 1190–1192 in the Kingdom of Jerusalem. Books 2–6 of the Itinerarium Regis Ricardi, a Latin prose narrative of the same events apparently compiled by Richard, a canon of Holy Trinity, London, are closely related to Ambroise's poem. They were formerly sometimes regarded as the first-hand narrative on which Ambroise based his work, but that can no longer be maintained. Published edition Ambroise, L´Estoire de la guerre sainte. Paris, 1897: http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/bpt6k6517331f.r Ambroise, Itinerarium regis Ricardi. London, 1920: https://archive.org/details/itinerariumregis00richuoft Ambroise, The History of the Holy War, translated by Marianne Ailes, Boydell Press, 2003. See also Anglo-Norman literature Norman language Notes 12th-century deaths Anglo-Norman literature Medieval writers about the Crusades Year of birth unknown 12th-century French poets Christians of the Third Crusade
Alexius is the Latinized form of the given name Alexios (, polytonic , "defender", cf. Alexander), especially common in the Byzantine Empire. The female form is Alexia () and its variants such as Alessia (the masculine form of which is Alessio) in Italian. The name belongs to the most ancient attested Greek names (a-re-ke-se-u in the Linear B tablets KN Df 1229 and MY Fu 718). Rulers Alexios I Komnenos (1048–1118), Byzantine emperor Alexios II Komnenos (1167–1183), Byzantine emperor Alexios III, Byzantine emperor Alexios IV, Byzantine emperor Alexios V Doukas, Byzantine emperor Alexios I of Trebizond, Emperor of Trebizond Alexios II of Trebizond, Emperor of Trebizond Alexios III of Trebizond, Emperor of Trebizond Alexios IV of Trebizond, Emperor of Trebizond Alexios V of Trebizond, Emperor of Trebizond Alexius Mikhailovich (1629–1676), Tsar of Russia Alexius Petrovich (1690–1718), Russian tsarevich Religious figures Alexius, Metropolitan of Moscow (1354–1378) Patriarch Alexius I of Constantinople (1025–1043) Alexius (c. 1425–1488), Russian archpriest who converted to Judaism Patriarch Alexius I of Moscow and All Russia (r. 1945–1970) Patriarch Alexius II of Moscow and All Russia (r. 1990–2008) Alexius of Nicaea, metropolitan bishop Saint Alexius of Rome, fifth-century eastern saint Alexius, a monk and saint of Kiev - see Abraham and Onesimus of Kiev Other Alexios Apokaukos, Byzantine statesman Alexios Aspietes, Byzantine governor Alexios Branas, Byzantine general Alexios Halebian, American tennis player Alexius Meinong, Austrian philosopher Alexios Mosele (Caesar), Byzantine heir-apparent Alexios Palaiologos (despot), Byzantine heir-apparent Alexios Philanthropenos, Byzantine general Alexios Raoul (protovestiarios), Byzantine general Alexios Strategopoulos, Byzantine general Alexios Xiphias, Byzantine Catepan of Italy Alexios (Assassin's Creed), a fictional character in Assassin's Creed: Odyssey Given names of Greek language origin Greek masculine given names Masculine given names Given names
The Africa Alphabet (also International African Alphabet or IAI alphabet) is a set of letters designed as the basis for Latin alphabets for the languages of Africa. It was initially developed in 1928 by the International Institute of African Languages and Cultures from a combination of the English alphabet and the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA). Development was assisted by native speakers of African languages and led by Diedrich Hermann Westermann, who served as director of the organization from 1926 to 1939. The aim of the International Institute of African Languages and Cultures, later renamed the International African Institute (IAI), was to enable people to write for practical and scientific purposes in all African languages without the need of diacritics. The Africa Alphabet influenced the development of orthographies of many African languages, serving "as the basis for the transcription" of about 60 by one count. Discussion of how to harmonize these with other systems led to several largely abortive proposals such as the African reference alphabet and the World Orthography. Overview The Africa Alphabet was built from the consonant letters of the English alphabet and the vowel letters, and any additional consonants, of the IPA. Capital forms of IPA letters were invented as necessary. Thus J and Y are pronounced and as in English, while Ɔ, Ɛ and Ŋ are pronounced , and as in the IPA. Characters See also African reference alphabet Latin-script alphabet Dinka alphabet ISO 6438 Pan-Nigerian alphabet Standard Alphabet by Lepsius Writing systems of Africa Notes References Coulmas, Florian, The Blackwell Encyclopedia of Writing Systems, 1996, Blackwell, Oxford IIACL, Practical Orthography of African Languages, Revised Edition, London: Oxford University Press, 1930 Sow, Alfa I., and Mohamed H. Abdulaziz, "Language and Social Change," Ch. 18 in Ali A. Mazrui (ed.) Africa Since 1935 (UNESCO General History of Africa, Vol. 8). University of California Press, 1993. Latin alphabets Writing systems of Africa Writing systems introduced in 1928 Orthography
Acquire is a board game published by 3M in 1964 that involves multi-player mergers and acquisitions. It was one of the most popular games in the 3M Bookshelf games series published in the 1960s, and the only one still published in the United States. Description Acquire is a board game for 2–6 players in which players attempt to earn the most money by developing and merging hotel chains. When a chain in which a player owns stock is acquired by a larger chain, players earn money based on the size of the acquired chain. At the end of the game, all players liquidate their stock in order to determine which player has the most money. It is played with play money, stock certificates, and tiles representing hotels that are arranged on the board. The components of the game have varied over the years. In particular, the tiles have been made from wood, plastic, and cardboard in various editions of the game. Set up Before play begins, the players must decide whether the numbers of players' shares will be public or private information. Keeping this information private can greatly extend the game since players will be less certain of their status, and therefore less willing to end the game. Each player receives play cash and a small random set of playing tiles and becomes the founder of a nascent hotel chain by drawing and placing a tile representing a hotel on the board. Tiles are ordered, and correspond to spaces on the board. Position of the starting tiles determines order of play. Gameplay Play consists of placing a tile on the board and optionally buying stock. The placed tile may found a new hotel chain, grow an existing one or merge two or more chains. Chains are sets of edge-wise adjacent tiles. Founders receive a share of stock in new chains. A chain can become "safe", immune to acquisition, by attaining a specified size. Following placement of a tile, the player may then buy a limited number of shares of stock in existing chains. Shares have a market value determined by the size and stature of the hotel chain. At the end of his or her turn, the player receives a new tile to replace the one played. When mergers occur, the smaller chain becomes defunct, and its tiles are then part of the acquiring chain. The two largest shareholders in the acquired chain receive cash bonuses; players may sell their shares in the defunct chain, trade them in for shares of the acquiring chain, or keep them. Mergers between 3 or more chains are handled in order from larger to smaller. Ending the game A player during their turn may declare the game at an end if the largest chain exceeds a specified size (about 40% of the board), or all chains on the board are too large to be acquired. When the game ends, shareholder bonuses are paid to the two largest shareholders of each chain, and players cash out their shares at market price (shares in any defunct chains are worthless). The player with the most money wins. Publication history When Sid Sackson was a child, he played a Milton Bradley gambling-themed board game titled Lotto. When he became a game designer, Sackson reworked the game into a wargame he called Lotto War. In 1962, Sackson and Alex Randolph were commissioned by 3M to start a new games division. When Sackson submitted Lotto War to 3M the following year, he retitled the game Vacation. 3M suggested changing the name to Acquire, and Sackson agreed. The game was test marketed in several U.S. cities in 1963, and production began in 1964 as a part of the 3M Bookshelf games series. In 1976, the 3M game division was sold to Avalon Hill and Acquire became part of their bookcase game series. Four years later, Avalon Hill published the computer game Computer Acquire for the PET, Apple II and TRS-80. In 1998, Avalon Hill became part of Hasbro. The new owners reissued a slightly revised version of Acquire in 2000, in which the hotel chains were replaced by fictitious corporations, though the actual gameplay was unchanged. Hasbro soon thereafter discontinued it. In the mid-2000s, the game was transferred to a Hasbro subsidiary, Wizards of the Coast (WotC). In 2008, WotC celebrated "50 years of Avalon Hill Games" with the release of a new edition of Acquire, although the game was not yet 50 years old. In 2016, the game was transferred back to the Hasbro games division and republished in 2016 under the Avalon label, with hotels chains reinstated. Reception In The Playboy Winner's Guide to Board Games, game designer Jon Freeman compared Cartel (A Gamut of Games) and Acquire, noting that both were "better games which focus on the joining of companies into conglomerates." Freeman thought Acquire had an edge over Cartel "in the quality of its components [...] Acquires higher price is unquestionably reflected in its packaging and presentation [and deserves] a place in your game library."Games Magazine included Acquire in their "Top 100 Games" in four consecutive years: In 1980 the editors praised it as a "classic game of getting in on the ground floor" and "proof that you need money to make money", noting that "a delicate sense of timing is important, but greed and a lust for power also help." In 1981, the editors noted that it "combines the flavors of Monopoly and the stock market" and cautioned that "Since the object is to acquire cash, careful timing of investments (and raids on competitors' chains!) is critical to winning". In 1982, the editors commented that "Among family games, this is one of the most strategic." In 1983, the editors commented "Adding to chains increases their value, but you must anticipate mergers, which occur when someone plays the right connecting tile at the right time." In the December 1993 edition of Dragon (Issue 200), Allen Varney advised readers to ignore the hotel theme: "Supposedly a game of hotel acquisitions and mergers, this is actually a superb abstract game of strategy and capital." Varney called the game "An early masterpiece from [Sid] Sackson, game historian and one of the great designers of our time." Awards The game was short-listed for the first Spiel des Jahres board game awards in 1979.GAMES magazine inducted Acquire into their buyers' guide Hall of Fame. The magazine's stated criteria for the Hall of Fame encompasses "games that have met or exceeded the highest standards of quality and play value and have been continuously in production for at least 10 years; i.e., classics."Acquire was inducted into the Academy of Adventure Gaming Arts & Design's Hall of Fame, along with game designer Sid Sackson, in 2011. It is also one of the Mind Sports Olympiad games. ReviewsJeux & Stratégie #1 (as "Trust")Jeux & Stratégie #6Jeux & Stratégie #51Games & Puzzles #11Games & Puzzles'' #69 References External links Acquire Wizards of the Coast page Acquire Webnoir page "The Origin of ACQUIRE" Acquisition Games page 3M bookshelf game series Avalon Hill games Board games introduced in 1964 Economic simulation board games Multiplayer games Sid Sackson games Stock market in popular culture Tile-laying board games
An abzyme (from antibody and enzyme), also called catmab (from catalytic monoclonal antibody), and most often called catalytic antibody or sometimes catab, is a monoclonal antibody with catalytic activity. Abzymes are usually raised in lab animals immunized against synthetic haptens, but some natural abzymes can be found in normal humans (anti-vasoactive intestinal peptide autoantibodies) and in patients with autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus, where they can bind to and hydrolyze DNA. To date abzymes display only weak, modest catalytic activity and have not proved to be of any practical use. They are, however, subjects of considerable academic interest. Studying them has yielded important insights into reaction mechanisms, enzyme structure and function, catalysis, and the immune system itself. Enzymes function by lowering the activation energy of the transition state of a chemical reaction, thereby enabling the formation of an otherwise less-favorable molecular intermediate between the reactant(s) and the product(s). If an antibody is developed to bind to a molecule that is structurally and electronically similar to the transition state of a given chemical reaction, the developed antibody will bind to, and stabilize, the transition state, just like a natural enzyme, lowering the activation energy of the reaction, and thus catalyzing the reaction. By raising an antibody to bind to a stable transition-state analog, a new and unique type of enzyme is produced. So far, all catalytic antibodies produced have displayed only modest, weak catalytic activity. The reasons for low catalytic activity for these molecules have been widely discussed. Possibilities indicate that factors beyond the binding site may play an important role, in particular through protein dynamics. Some abzymes have been engineered to use metal ions and other cofactors to improve their catalytic activity. History The possibility of catalyzing a reaction by means of an antibody which binds the transition state was first suggested by William P. Jencks in 1969. In 1994 Peter G. Schultz and Richard A. Lerner received the prestigious Wolf Prize in Chemistry for developing catalytic antibodies for many reactions and popularizing their study into a significant sub-field of enzymology. Abzymes in Human healthy Breast Milk There are a broad range of abzymes in healthy human mothers with DNAse, RNAse, and protease activity. Potential HIV treatment In a June 2008 issue of the journal Autoimmunity Review, researchers S. Planque, Sudhir Paul, Ph.D, and Yasuhiro Nishiyama, Ph.D of the University Of Texas Medical School at Houston announced that they have engineered an abzyme that degrades the superantigenic region of the gp120 CD4 binding site. This is the one part of the HIV virus outer coating that does not change, because it is the attachment point to T lymphocytes, the key cell in cell-mediated immunity. Once infected by HIV, patients produce antibodies to the more changeable parts of the viral coat. The antibodies are ineffective because of the virus' ability to change their coats rapidly. Because this protein gp120 is necessary for HIV to attach, it does not change across different strains and is a point of vulnerability across the entire range of the HIV variant population. The abzyme does more than bind to the site: it catalytically destroys the site, rendering the virus inert, and then can attack other HIV viruses. A single abzyme molecule can destroy thousands of HIV viruses. References Monoclonal antibodies Immune system Enzymes
Annealing may refer to: Annealing (biology), in genetics Annealing (glass), heating a piece of glass to remove stress Annealing (materials science), a heat treatment that alters the microstructure of a material Quantum annealing, a method for solving combinatorial optimisation problems and ground states of glassy systems Simulated annealing, a numerical optimization technique
An autosome is any chromosome that is not a sex chromosome. The members of an autosome pair in a diploid cell have the same morphology, unlike those in allosomal (sex chromosome) pairs, which may have different structures. The DNA in autosomes is collectively known as atDNA or auDNA. For example, humans have a diploid genome that usually contains 22 pairs of autosomes and one allosome pair (46 chromosomes total). The autosome pairs are labeled with numbers (1–22 in humans) roughly in order of their sizes in base pairs, while allosomes are labelled with their letters. By contrast, the allosome pair consists of two X chromosomes in females or one X and one Y chromosome in males. Unusual combinations of XYY, XXY, XXX, XXXX, XXXXX or XXYY, among other Salome combinations, are known to occur and usually cause developmental abnormalities. Autosomes still contain sexual determination genes even though they are not sex chromosomes. For example, the SRY gene on the Y chromosome encodes the transcription factor TDF and is vital for male sex determination during development. TDF functions by activating the SOX9 gene on chromosome 17, so mutations of the SOX9 gene can cause humans with an ordinary Y chromosome to develop as females. All human autosomes have been identified and mapped by extracting the chromosomes from a cell arrested in metaphase or prometaphase and then staining them with a type of dye (most commonly, Giemsa). These chromosomes are typically viewed as karyograms for easy comparison. Clinical geneticists can compare the karyogram of an individual to a reference karyogram to discover the cytogenetic basis of certain phenotypes. For example, the karyogram of someone with Patau Syndrome would show that they possess three copies of chromosome 13. Karyograms and staining techniques can only detect large-scale disruptions to chromosomes—chromosomal aberrations smaller than a few million base pairs generally cannot be seen on a karyogram. Autosomal genetic disorders Autosomal genetic disorders can arise due to a number of causes, some of the most common being nondisjunction in parental germ cells or Mendelian inheritance of deleterious alleles from parents. Autosomal genetic disorders which exhibit Mendelian inheritance can be inherited either in an autosomal dominant or recessive fashion. These disorders manifest in and are passed on by either sex with equal frequency. Autosomal dominant disorders are often present in both parent and child, as the child needs to inherit only one copy of the deleterious allele to manifest the disease. Autosomal recessive diseases, however, require two copies of the deleterious allele for the disease to manifest. Because it is possible to possess one copy of a deleterious allele without presenting a disease phenotype, two phenotypically normal parents can have a child with the disease if both parents are carriers (also known as heterozygotes) for the condition. Autosomal aneuploidy can also result in disease conditions. Aneuploidy of autosomes is not well tolerated and usually results in miscarriage of the developing fetus. Fetuses with aneuploidy of gene-rich chromosomes—such as chromosome 1—never survive to term, and fetuses with aneuploidy of gene-poor chromosomes—such as chromosome 21— are still miscarried over 23% of the time. Possessing a single copy of an autosome (known as a monosomy) is nearly always incompatible with life, though very rarely some monosomies can survive past birth. Having three copies of an autosome (known as a trisomy) is far more compatible with life, however. A common example is Down syndrome, which is caused by possessing three copies of chromosome 21 instead of the usual two. Partial aneuploidy can also occur as a result of unbalanced translocations during meiosis. Deletions of part of a chromosome cause partial monosomies, while duplications can cause partial trisomies. If the duplication or deletion is large enough, it can be discovered by analyzing a karyogram of the individual. Autosomal translocations can be responsible for a number of diseases, ranging from cancer to schizophrenia. Unlike single gene disorders, diseases caused by aneuploidy are the result of improper gene dosage, not nonfunctional gene product. See also Aneuploidy (abnormal number of chromosomes) Autosomal dominant Autosomal recessive Homologous chromosome Pseudoautosomal region XY sex-determination system Genetic disorder References Chromosomes Cytogenetics
Antwerp is a city in Belgium and capital of the Antwerp province. Antwerp may also refer to: In Belgium Antwerp (district) Antwerp (province) In the United States Antwerp, Ohio Antwerp Township, Michigan Antwerp, New York Antwerp (village), New York In Australia Antwerp, Victoria Other Port of Antwerp Royal Antwerp FC, a football club Antwerp (novel), by Roberto Bolaño Antwerp, a poem by Ford Madox Ford See also
Aquila may refer to: Arts, entertainment, and media Aquila, a series of books by S.P. Somtow Aquila, a 1997 book by Andrew Norriss Aquila (children's magazine), a UK-based children's magazine Aquila (journal), an ornithological journal Aquila (TV series), a BBC TV production for children based on the Norriss book Aquila Theatre, a theatre company of New York Fictional entities Aquila, a ship in the video game Star Ocean: The Last Hope Aquila, a ship in the video game Assassin's Creed III Aquila Yuna, a character in the anime Saint Seiya Omega Aquila, a medieval city in the fantasy film Ladyhawke (1985) People Aquila (name), a given name or surname Places Aquila, Michoacán, a town in Mexico Aquila, Switzerland, a former municipality Aquila, Veracruz, a municipality in Mexico L'Aquila, sometimes Aquila, the regional capital of Abruzzo in Italy Province of L'Aquila, Italy Transportation Automotive Aquila Italiana, Italian car manufacturer or brand Aquila racing cars, a Danish firm Hyosung GV250, a cruiser motorcycle nicknamed the "Aquila" Aviation Angus Aquila, a British aircraft Bristol Aquila, an aircraft engine Aquila, an air traffic management services company owned by NATS Holdings Aquila A 210, a German lightweight aircraft Aquila Airways, a British flying boat operator (1948–1958) Facebook Aquila, Facebook's design for an atmospheric satellite Lockheed MQM-105 Aquila, the U.S. Army's first battlefield reconnaissance drone Boats Aquila 27, a French sailboat design Ships USS Aquila (AK-47), an Aquila-class U.S. Navy cargo ship USS Aquila (PHM-4), a U.S. Navy hydrofoil Italian aircraft carrier Aquila, a World War II Italian aircraft carrier Other uses Aquila (bird), a genus of birds including some eagles Aquila (constellation), the astronomical constellation, the Eagle Aquila (Roman), a Roman military standard Aquila, Inc., a former electric and gas utility in Kansas City, Missouri, United States Aquila Capital, an independent investment firm in Hamburg, Germany See also Aguila (disambiguation) Aquila College of Ministries, former name of Hillsong College Aquila Court Building of Omaha, Nebraska Aquileia, an ancient Roman city in Italy Aquilia (disambiguation) Aquilinus (disambiguation) Aquilla (disambiguation) Balanus aquila, a species of barnacle Dell'Aquila, a surname Macroglossum aquila, a species of moth Roman Catholic Archdiocese of L'Aquila, Italy
Argo Navis (the Ship Argo), or simply Argo, is one of Ptolemy's 48 constellations, now a grouping of three IAU constellations. It is formerly a single large constellation in the southern sky. The genitive is "Argus Navis", abbreviated "Arg". Flamsteed and other early modern astronomers called it Navis (the Ship), genitive "Navis", abbreviated "Nav". The constellation proved to be of unwieldy size, as it was 28% larger than the next largest constellation and had more than 160 easily visible stars. The 1755 catalogue of Nicolas Louis de Lacaille divided it into the three modern constellations that occupy much of the same area: Carina (the keel), Puppis (the poop deck or stern), and Vela (the sails). Argo derived from the ship Argo in Greek mythology, sailed by Jason and the Argonauts to Colchis in search of the Golden Fleece. Some stars of Puppis and Vela can be seen from Mediterranean latitudes in winter and spring, the ship appearing to skim along the "river of the Milky Way." The precession of the equinoxes has caused the position of the stars from Earth's viewpoint to shift southward. Though most of the constellation was visible in Classical times, the constellation is now not easily visible from most of the northern hemisphere. All the stars of Argo Navis are easily visible from the tropics southward and pass near zenith from southern temperate latitudes. The brightest of these is Canopus (α Carinae), the second-brightest night-time star, now assigned to Carina. History Development of the Greek constellation Argo Navis is known from Greek texts, which derived it from Egypt around 1000 BC. Plutarch attributed it to the Egyptian "Boat of Osiris." Some academics theorized a Sumerian origin related to the Epic of Gilgamesh, a hypothesis rejected for lack of evidence that Mesopotamian cultures considered these stars, or any portion of them, to form a boat. Over time, Argo became identified exclusively with ancient Greek myth of Jason and the Argonauts. In Ptolemy's Almagest, Argo Navis occupies the portion of the Milky Way between Canis Major and Centaurus, with stars marking such details as the "little shield", the "steering-oar", the "mast-holder", and the "stern-ornament", which continued to be reflected in cartographic representations in celestial atlases into the nineteenth century (see below). The ship appeared to rotate about the pole sternwards, so nautically in reverse. Aratus, the Greek poet / historian living in the third century BCE, noted this backward progression writing, "Argo by the Great Dog's [Canis Major's] tail is drawn; for hers is not a usual course, but backward turned she comes ...". The constituent modern constellations In modern times, Argo Navis was considered unwieldy due to its enormous size (28% larger than Hydra, the largest modern constellation). In his 1763 star catalogue, Nicolas Louis de Lacaille explained that there were more than a hundred and sixty stars clearly visible to the naked eye in Navis, and so he used the set of lowercase and uppercase Latin letters three times on portions of the constellation referred to as "Argûs in carina" (Carina, the keel), "Argûs in puppi" (Puppis, the poop deck or stern), and "Argûs in velis" (Vela, the sails). Lacaille replaced Bayer's designations with new ones that followed stellar magnitudes more closely, but used only a single Greek-letter sequence and described the constellation for those stars as "Argûs". Similarly, faint unlettered stars were listed only as in "Argûs". The final breakup and abolition of Argo Navis was proposed by Sir John Herschel in 1841 and again in 1844. Despite this, the constellation remained in use in parallel with its constituent parts into the 20th century. In 1922, along with the other constellations, it received a three-letter abbreviation: Arg. The breakup and relegation to a former constellation occurred in 1930 when the IAU defined the 88 modern constellations, formally instituting Carina, Puppis, and Vela, and declaring Argo obsolete. Lacaille's designations were kept in the offspring, so Carina has α, β, and ε; Vela has γ and δ; Puppis has ζ; and so on. As a result of this breakup, Argo Navis is the only one of Ptolemy's 48 constellations that is no longer officially recognized as a single constellation. In addition, the constellation Pyxis (the mariner's compass) occupies an area near what in antiquity was considered part of Argo's mast. Some recent authors state that the compass was part of the ship, but magnetic compasses were unknown in ancient Greek times. Lacaille considered it a separate constellation representing a modern scientific instrument (like Microscopium and Telescopium), that he created for maps of the stars of the southern hemisphere. Pyxis was listed among his 14 new constellations. In 1844, John Herschel suggested formalizing the mast as a new constellation, Malus, to replace Lacaille's Pyxis, but the idea did not catch on. Similarly, an effort by Edmond Halley to detach the "cloud of mist" at the prow of Argo Navis to form a new constellation named Robur Carolinum (Charles' Oak) in honor of King Charles II, his patron, was unsuccessful. Representations in other cultures In Vedic period astronomy, which drew its zodiac signs and many constellations from the period of the Indo-Greek Kingdom, Indian observers saw the asterism as a boat. The Māori had several names for the constellation, including Te Waka-o-Tamarereti (the canoe of Tamarereti), Te Kohi-a-Autahi (an expression meaning "cold of autumn settling down on land and water"), and Te Kohi. See also Asterism (astronomy) List of stars in Argo Navis Footnotes References External links Starry Night Photography : Argo Navis Image Ian Ridpath's Star Tales – Argo Navis Warburg Institute Iconographic Database – Argo (Navis) (medieval and early modern images of Argo Navis) Constellations listed by Ptolemy Former constellations
Auriga or AURIGA can refer to: Auriga (constellation), a constellation of stars Auriga (slave), a Roman charioteer HMS Auriga (P419), a British submarine launched in 1945 Auriga of Delphi, name of the statue Charioteer of Delphi USM Auriga, a spaceship in the film Alien Resurrection Auriga, a fictional planet in the Endless franchise by Amplitude Studios AURIGA, a gravitational wave detector in Italy Auriga-1.2V (Аурига-1.2В), a Russian satellite communications system, and a component of the MK VTR-016 (МК ВТР-016) mobile video transmission system , a number of steamships with this name
An atmosphere is a gas layer around a celestial body. Atmosphere may also refer to: Science Atmosphere (unit), a unit of pressure Atmosphere of Earth Extraterrestrial atmospheres Stellar atmosphere Arts, entertainment, and media Music Groups Atmosphere (music group), an American hip-hop duo from Minnesota Atmosphere (Polish band) Albums Atmosphere (Atmosphere album) (1997) Atmosphere (Eloy Fritsch album) (2003) Atmosphere (Kaskade album) (2013), or the title song Atmosphere (Sevenglory album) (2007) Atmosphere, a 1969 album by Colours, produced by Dan Moore and Richard Delvy Atmospheres (album) (2014) Songs and orchestral pieces "Atmosphere" (Drax Project song) (2023) "Atmosphere" (Joy Division song) (1980) "Atmosphere" (Kaskade song) (2013) "Atmosphere" (1975), from Let's Take It to the Stage by Funkadelic "Atmosphere" (2001), from Singularity by Joe Morris "Atmosphere" (1984), by Russ Abbot Atmosphères (1961), an orchestral piece by György Ligeti Periodicals Atmosphere (journal), an open access scientific journal Atmosphere (magazine), the inflight magazine of Air Transat Other uses in arts, entertainment, and media Atmospheres (TV series) Atmospheric theatre, a type of cinema architecture Atmosphere, another term for a film extra Atmosphere (literature), a literary term referring to the mood surrounding a story Atmosphere (service), a video on-demand service that provides content in a business-to-business capacity Other uses Atmosphere (architecture and spatial design) Atmosphere (Kolkata), a residential superstructure in India Adobe Atmosphere, a computer graphics platform Atmosphere Visual Effects, a Canadian company See also Atmosfear (disambiguation)
Attorney may refer to: Lawyer Attorney at law, in some jurisdictions Attorney, one who has power of attorney The Attorney, a 2013 South Korean film See also Attorney general, the principal legal officer of (or advisor to) a government Attorney's fee, compensation for legal services Attorney–client privilege Clusia rosea, Scotch attorney, a tropical and sub-tropical flowering plant species
Astronomer royal is a senior post in the Royal Households of the United Kingdom. There are two officers, the senior being the astronomer royal dating from 22 June 1675; the junior is the astronomer royal for Scotland dating from 1834. The post was created by King Charles II in 1675, at the same time as he founded the Royal Observatory, Greenwich. He appointed John Flamsteed, instructing him "." The astronomer royal was director of the Royal Observatory, Greenwich from the establishment of the post in 1675 until 1972. The astronomer royal became an honorary title in 1972 without executive responsibilities, and a separate post of director of the Royal Greenwich Observatory was created to manage the institution. The astronomer royal today receives a stipend of 100 GBP per year and is a member of the royal household, under the general authority of the Lord Chamberlain. After the separation of the two offices, the position of astronomer royal has been largely honorary, although the holder remains available to advise the Sovereign on astronomical and related scientific matters, and the office is of great prestige. There was formerly a royal astronomer of Ireland, a post that seemingly ended with Irish independence. The astronomer royal is mentioned in H. G. Wells' novel The War of the Worlds and in George Orwell's Down and Out in Paris and London. He also makes an appearance in the lyrics of Gilbert and Sullivan'''s The Pirates of Penzance and plays an important role in Fred Hoyle's novel The Black Cloud''. Astronomers royal References External links Official website Ceremonial officers in the United Kingdom Lists of British people Positions within the British Royal Household Astronomer Royal Royal Observatory, Greenwich
The word aeon , also spelled eon (in American and Australian English), originally meant "life", "vital force" or "being", "generation" or "a period of time", though it tended to be translated as "age" in the sense of "ages", "forever", "timeless" or "for eternity". It is a Latin transliteration from the ancient Greek word (), from the archaic () meaning "century". In Greek, it literally refers to the timespan of one hundred years. A cognate Latin word or (cf. ) for "age" is present in words such as longevity and mediaeval. Although the term aeon may be used in reference to a period of a billion years (especially in geology, cosmology and astronomy), its more common usage is for any long, indefinite period. Aeon can also refer to the four aeons on the geologic time scale that make up the Earth's history, the Hadean, Archean, Proterozoic, and the current aeon, Phanerozoic. Astronomy and cosmology In astronomy, an aeon is defined as a billion years (109 years, abbreviated AE). Roger Penrose uses the word aeon to describe the period between successive and cyclic Big Bangs within the context of conformal cyclic cosmology. Philosophy and mysticism In Buddhism, an "aeon" or (Sanskrit: ) is often said to be 1,334,240,000 years, the life cycle of the world. Christianity's idea of "eternal life" comes from the word for life, (), and a form of (), which could mean life in the next aeon, the Kingdom of God, or Heaven, just as much as immortality, as in . According to Christian universalism, the Greek New Testament scriptures use the word () to mean a long period and the word () to mean "during a long period"; thus, there was a time before the aeons, and the aeonian period is finite. After each person's mortal life ends, they are judged worthy of aeonian life or aeonian punishment. That is, after the period of the aeons, all punishment will cease and death is overcome and then God becomes the all in each one (). This contrasts with the conventional Christian belief in eternal life and eternal punishment. Occultists of the Thelema and Ordo Templi Orientis (English: "Order of the Temple of the East") traditions sometimes speak of a "magical Aeon" that may last for perhaps as little as 2,000 years. Gnosticism In many Gnostic systems, the various emanations of God, who is also known by such names as the One, the Monad, Aion teleos ("The Broadest Aeon", Greek: ), Bythos ("depth or profundity", Greek: ), Proarkhe ("before the beginning", Greek: ), ("the beginning", Greek: ), ("wisdom"), and ("the Anointed One"), are called Aeons. In the different systems these emanations are differently named, classified, and described, but the emanation theory itself is common to all forms of Gnosticism. In the Basilidian Gnosis they are called sonships ( ; singular: ); according to Marcus, they are numbers and sounds; in Valentinianism they form male/female pairs called "" (Greek , from ). See also Aion (deity) Kalpa (aeon) Saeculum – comparable Latin concept References New Testament Greek words and phrases Time Units of time Gnosticism
Aotus (the name is derived from the Ancient Greek words for "earless" in both cases: the monkey is missing external ears, and the pea is missing earlike bracteoles) may refer to: Aotus (plant), one of the plant genera commonly known as golden peas in the family Fabaceae (bean family) Aotus (monkey), the genus of night monkeys in the family Aotidae AOTUS, the acronym for the Archivist of the United States
Andreas Capellanus (Capellanus meaning "chaplain"), also known as Andrew the Chaplain, and occasionally by a French translation of his name, André le Chapelain, was the 12th-century author of a treatise commonly known as De amore ("About Love"), and often known in English, somewhat misleadingly, as The Art of Courtly Love, though its realistic, somewhat cynical tone suggests that it is in some measure an antidote to courtly love. Little is known of Andreas Capellanus's life, but he is presumed to have been a courtier of Marie de Champagne, and probably of French origin. His work De Amore was written at the request of Marie de Champagne, daughter of King Louis VII of France and of Eleanor of Aquitaine. In it, the author informs a young pupil, Walter, of the pitfalls of love. A dismissive allusion in the text to the "wealth of Hungary" has suggested the hypothesis that it was written after 1184, at the time when Bela III of Hungary had sent to the French court a statement of his income and had proposed marriage to Marie's half-sister Marguerite of France, but before 1186, when his proposal was accepted. De Amore is made up of three books. The first book covers the etymology and definition of love and is written in the manner of an academic lecture. The second book consists of sample dialogues between members of different social classes; it outlines how the romantic process between the classes should work. This second work is largely considered to be an inferior to the first. Book three is made of stories from actual courts of love presided over by noble women. John Jay Parry, the editor of one modern edition of De Amore, quotes critic Robert Bossuat as describing De Amore as "one of those capital works which reflect the thought of a great epoch, which explains the secret of a civilization". It may be viewed as didactic, mocking, or merely descriptive; in any event it preserves the attitudes and practices that were the foundation of a long and significant tradition in Western literature. The social system of "courtly love", as gradually elaborated by the Provençal troubadours from the mid twelfth century, soon spread. One of the circles in which this poetry and its ethic were cultivated was the court of Eleanor of Aquitaine (herself the granddaughter of an early troubadour poet, William IX of Aquitaine). De Amore codifies the social and love life of Eleanor's court at Poitiers between 1170 and 1174, though it was evidently written at least ten years later and, apparently, at Troyes. It deals with several specific themes that were the subject of poetical debate among late twelfth century troubadours and trobairitz. The meaning of De Amore has been debated over the centuries. In the years immediately following its release many people took Andreas' opinions concerning Courtly Love seriously. In more recent times, however, scholars have come to view the priest's work as satirical. Many scholars now agree that Andreas was commenting on the materialistic, superficial nature of medieval nobles. Andreas seems to have been warning young Walter, his protégé, about love in the Middle Ages. See also Martianus Capella Quadrivium Bibliography Andreas Capellanus: The Art of Courtly Love, trans. John Jay Parry. New York: Columbia University Press, 1941. (Reprinted: New York: Norton, 1969.) Andreas Capellanus: On Love, ed. and trans. P. G. Walsh. London: Duckworth, 1982. References Citations General references External links Excerpts of De Amore in English 12th-century writers in Latin 12th-century births French essayists Date of death unknown French male essayists 12th-century French writers
The Alexander Technique, named after its developer Frederick Matthias Alexander (1869–1955), is a type of alternative therapy based on the idea that poor posture gives rise to a range of health problems. The American National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health classifies it as a "psychological and physical" complementary approach to health when used "together with" mainstream methods. When used "in place of" conventional medicine, it's considered "alternative". Alexander began developing his technique's principles in the 1890s in an attempt to address his own voice loss during public speaking. He credited his method with allowing him to pursue his passion for performing Shakespearean recitations. Proponents and teachers of the Alexander Technique believe the technique can address a variety of health conditions, but there is a lack of research to support the claims. , the UK National Health Service cites evidence which suggests that the Alexander Technique may be helpful for long-term back pain and for long-term neck pain, and that it could help people cope with Parkinson's disease. Both the American health-insurance company Aetna and the Australian Department of Health have conducted reviews and concluded that there is insufficient evidence for the technique's health claims to warrant insurance coverage. Method The Alexander Technique is most commonly taught in a series of private lessons which may last from 30 minutes to an hour. The number of lessons varies widely, depending on the student's needs and level of interest. Students are often performers, such as actors, dancers, musicians, athletes and public speakers, people who work on computers, or those who are in frequent pain for other reasons. Instructors observe their students, and provide both verbal and gentle manual guidance to help students learn how to move with better poise and less strain. Sessions include chair work – often in front of a mirror – during which the instructor will guide the student while the student stands, sits and walks, learning to move efficiently while maintaining a comfortable relationship between the head, neck, and spine, and table work or physical manipulation. In the United Kingdom, there is no regulation for who can offer Alexander Technique services. Professional organisations do exist, however, typically offering 3 year courses to people becoming instructors. History The Alexander Technique is based on the personal observations of Frederick Matthias Alexander (1869–1955). Alexander's career as an actor was hampered by recurrent bouts of laryngitis, but he found he could overcome it by focusing on his discomfort and tension, and relaxing. Alexander also thought posture could be improved if one became more conscious of one's own bodily movement. While on a recital tour in New Zealand (1895), Alexander came to believe in the wider significance of improved carriage for overall physical functioning, although evidence from his own publications appears to indicate it happened less systematically and over a long period of time. Alexander did not originally conceive of his technique as therapy, but it has become a form of alternative medicine. When considering how to classify the Alexander Technique in relation to mainstream medicine, some sources describe it as alternative and/or complementary, depending on whether it is used alone or with mainstream methods. The American National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health classifies it as a "psychological and physical" complementary approach to health when used with mainstream methods. When used "in place of" conventional medicine, it's considered "alternative". Influence The American philosopher and educator John Dewey became impressed with the Alexander Technique after his headaches, neck pains, blurred vision, and stress symptoms largely improved during the time he used Alexander's advice to change his posture. In 1923, Dewey wrote the introduction to Alexander's Constructive Conscious Control of the Individual. Fritz Perls, who originated Gestalt therapy, credited Alexander as an inspiration for his psychological work. Uses The Alexander Technique is used as a therapy for stress-related chronic conditions. It does not attempt to cure the underlying cause, but to teach people how to avoid bad habits which might exacerbate their condition. The Technique is used as an alternative treatment to improve both voice and posture for people in the performing arts. it was on the curriculum of prominent Western performing arts institutions. According to Alexander Technique instructor Michael J. Gelb, people tend to study the Alexander Technique for reasons of personal development. Health effects The UK National Health Service says that advocates of the Alexander Technique made claims for it that were not supported by evidence, but that there was evidence suggesting that it might help with chronic back or neck pain, and Parkinson disease. There was limited evidence for chronic pain, stammering, and balance skills in older people. There was no good evidence of benefit for other conditions including asthma, headaches, osteoarthritis, difficulty sleeping, and stress." A review published in BMC Complementary and Alternative Medicine in 2014 focused on "the evidence for the effectiveness of AT sessions on musicians' performance, anxiety, respiratory function and posture" concluded that "evidence from RCTs and CTs suggests that AT sessions may improve performance anxiety in musicians. Effects on music performance, respiratory function and posture yet remain inconclusive." A 2012 Cochrane systematic review found that there is no good evidence that the Alexander Technique is effective for treating asthma, and randomized clinical trials are needed in order to assess the effectiveness of this type of treatment approach. A review by Aetna last updated in 2021 stated: "Aetna considers the following alternative medicine interventions experimental and investigational because there is inadequate evidence in the peer-reviewed published medical literature of their effectiveness." The Alexander Technique is included in that list. A 2015 review, conducted for the Australian Department of Health in order to determine what services the Australian government should pay for, examined clinical trials published to date and found that "overall, the evidence was limited by the small number of participants in the intervention arms, wide confidence intervals or a lack of replication of results." It concluded that "the Alexander Technique may improve short-term pain and disability in people with low back pain, but the longer-term effects remain uncertain. For all other clinical conditions, the effectiveness of the Alexander Technique was deemed to be uncertain, due to insufficient evidence." It also noted that "evidence for the safety of Alexander Technique was lacking, with most trials not reporting on this outcome." Subsequently in 2017, the Australian government named the Alexander Technique as a practice that would not qualify for insurance subsidy, saying this step would "ensure taxpayer funds are expended appropriately and not directed to therapies lacking evidence". See also Nikolai Bernstein George E. Coghill Motor skill consolidation Neutral spine Psychomotor learning References External links Mind–body interventions Postural awareness techniques Somatics
Andrea Alciato (8 May 149212 January 1550), commonly known as Alciati (Andreas Alciatus), was an Italian jurist and writer. He is regarded as the founder of the French school of legal humanists. Biography Alciati was born in Alzate Brianza, near Milan, and settled in France in the early 16th century. He displayed great literary skill in his exposition of the laws, and was one of the first to interpret the civil law by the history, languages and literature of antiquity, and to substitute original research for the servile interpretations of the glossators. He published many legal works, and some annotations on Tacitus and accumulated a sylloge of Roman inscriptions from Milan and its territories, as part of his preparation for his history of Milan, written in 1504–05. Among his several appointments, Alciati taught Law at the University of Bourges between 1529 and 1535. It was Guillaume Budé who encouraged the call to Bourges at the time. Pierre Bayle, in his General Dictionary (article "Alciat"), relates that he greatly increased his salary there, by the "stratagem" of arranging to get a job offer from the University of Bologna and using it as a negotiation point . Alciati is most famous for his Emblemata, published in dozens of editions from 1531 onward. This collection of short Latin verse texts and accompanying woodcuts created an entire European genre, the emblem book, which attained enormous popularity in continental Europe and Great Britain. Alciati died at Pavia in 1550. Works Annotationes in tres libros Codicis (1515) Emblematum libellus (1531) Opera omnia (Basel 1546–49) Rerum Patriae, seu Historiae Mediolanensis, Libri IV (Milan, 1625) a history of Milan, written in 1504–05. De formula Romani Imperii (Basilae: Ioannem Oporinum, 1559, editio princeps) Quotation References External links Alciato at Glasgow – Reproductions of 22 editions of Alciato's emblems from 1531 to 1621 Description, Reproduction and translation Memorial University of Newfoundland Emblemata Latin text, Antwerp 1577, full digital facsimile, CAMENA Project 1492 births 1550 deaths 16th-century Italian jurists 16th-century writers in Latin 16th-century Italian historians Italian Renaissance humanists People from the Province of Como
Absorption may refer to: Chemistry and biology Absorption (biology), digestion Absorption (small intestine) Absorption (chemistry), diffusion of particles of gas or liquid into liquid or solid materials Absorption (skin), a route by which substances enter the body through the skin Absorption (pharmacology), absorption of drugs into the body Physics and chemical engineering Absorption (acoustics), absorption of sound waves by a material Absorption (electromagnetic radiation), absorption of light or other electromagnetic radiation by a material Absorption air conditioning, a type of solar air conditioning Absorption refrigerator, a refrigerator that runs on surplus heat rather than electricity Dielectric absorption, the inability of a charged capacitor to completely discharge when briefly discharged Mathematics and economics Absorption (economics), the total demand of an economy for goods and services both from within and without Absorption (logic), one of the rules of inference Absorption costing, or total absorption costing, a method for appraising or valuing a firm's total inventory by including all the manufacturing costs incurred to produce those goods Absorbing element, in mathematics, an element that does not change when it is combined in a binary operation with some other element Absorption law, in mathematics, an identity linking a pair of binary operations See also Adsorption, the formation of a gas or liquid film on a solid surface CO2 scrubber, device which absorbs carbon dioxide from circulated gas Digestion, the uptake of substances by the gastrointestinal tract Absorption (psychology), a state of becoming absorbed by mental imagery or fantasy Flow (psychology), a state of total mental "absorption"
The actinophryids are an order of heliozoa, a polyphyletic array of stramenopiles, having a close relationship with pedinellids and Ciliophrys. They are common in fresh water and occasionally found in marine and soil habitats. Actinophryids are unicellular and roughly spherical in shape, with many axopodia that radiate outward from the cell body. Axopodia are a type of pseudopodia that are supported by hundreds of microtubules arranged in interlocking spirals and forming a needle-like internal structure or axoneme. Small granules, extrusomes, that lie under the membrane of the body and axopodia capture flagellates, ciliates and small metazoa that make contact with the arms. Description Actinophryids are largely aquatic protozoa with a spherical cell body and many needle-like axopodia. They resemble the shape of a sun due to this structure, which is the inspiration for their common name: heliozoa, or "sun-animalcules". Their bodies, without arms, range in size from a few tens of micrometers to slightly under a millimeter across. The outer region of cell body is often vacuolated. The endoplasm of actinophryids is less vacuolated than the outer layer, and a sharp boundary layer may be seen by light microscopy. The organisms can be either mononucleate, with a single, well defined nucleus in the center of the cell body, or multinucleate, with 10 or more nuclei located under the outer vacuolated layer of cytoplasm. The cytoplasm of actinophryids is often granular, similar to that of Amoeba. Actinoprhyid cells may fuse when feeding, creating larger aggregated organisms. Fine granules that occur just under the cell membrane are used up when food vacuoles form to enclose prey. Actinophryids may also form cysts when food is not readily available. A layer of siliceous plates is deposited under the cell membrane during the encystment process. Contractile vacuoles are common in these organisms, which are presumed to use them to maintain body volume by expelling fluids to compensate for the entry of water by osmosis. Contractile vacuoles are visible as clear bulges from the surface of the cell body that slowly fill then rapidly deflate, expelling their contents into the environment. Axopodia The most distinctive characteristic of the actinophryids is their axopodia. These axopodia consist of a central, rigid rod which is coated in a thin layer of ectoplasm. In Actinophrys the axonemes end on the surface of the central nucleus, and in the multicellular Actinosphaerium they end at or near nuclei. The axonemes are composed of microtubules arranged in a double spiral pattern characteristic of the order. Due to their long, parallel construction, these microtubules demonstrate strong birefringence. These axopodia are used for prey capture, in movement, cell fusion and perhaps division. They are stiff but may flex especially near their tips, and are highly dynamic, undergoing frequent construction and destruction. When used to collect prey items, two methods of capture have been noted, termed axopodial flow and rapid axopodial contraction. Axopodial flow involves the slow movement of a prey item along the surface of the axopod as the ectoplasm itself moves, while rapid axopodial contraction involves the collapse of the axoneme's microtubule structure. This behavior has been documented in many species, including Actinosphaerium nucleofilum, Actinophrys sol, and Raphidiophrys contractilis. The rapid axopodial contraction occurs at high speed, often in excess of 5mm/s or tens of body lengths per second. The axopodial contractions have been shown to be highly sensitive to environmental factors such as temperature and pressure as well as chemical signals like Ca2+ and colchicine. Reproduction Reproduction in actinophryids generally takes place via fission, where one parent cell divides into two or more daughter cells. For multinucleate heliozoa, this process is plasmotomic as the nuclei are not duplicated prior to division. It has been observed that reproduction appears to be a response to food scarcity, with an increased number of divisions following the removal of food and larger organisms during times of food excess. Actinophryids also undergo autogamy during times of food scarcity. This is better described as genetic reorganization than reproduction, as the number of individuals produced is the same as the initial number. Nonetheless, it serves as a way to increase genetic diversity within an individual which may improve the likelihood of expressing favorable genetic traits. Plastogamy has also been extensively documented in actinophryids, especially in multinucleate ones. Actinosphaerium were observed to combine freely without the combination of nuclei, and this process sometimes resulted in more or less individuals than originally combined. This process is not caused merely by contact between two individuals but can be caused by damage to the cell body. Cyst function and formation Under unfavourable conditions, some species will form a cyst. This is often the product of autogamy, in which case the cysts produced are zygotes. Cells undergoing this process withdraw their axopodia, adhere to the substrate, and take on an opaque and grayish appearance. This cyst then divides until only uninucleate cells remain. The cyst wall is thickly layered 7–8 times and includes gelatinous layers, layers of silica plates, and iron. Taxonomy Originally placed in Heliozoa (Sarcodina), the actinophryids are now understood to be part of the stramenopiles. They are unrelated to centrohelid and desmothoracid heliozoa with which they had been previously classified. There are several genera included within this classification. Actinophrys are smaller and have a single, central nucleus. Most have a cell body 40–50 micrometer in diameter with axopods around 100 μm in length, though this varies significantly. Actinosphaerium are several times larger, from 200 to 1000 μm in diameter, with many nuclei and are found exclusively in fresh water. A third genus, Camptonema, has a debated status. It has been observed once and was treated as a junior subjective synonym of Actinosphaerium by Mikrjukov & Patterson in 2001, but as a valid genus by Cavalier-Smith & Scoble (2013). Heliorapha is a further debated taxon, it being a new generic vehicle for the species azurina that was initially assigned to the genus Ciliophrys. Classification According to the latest review of actinophryid classifications, they are organized into two suborders, three families and three genera. Order Actinophryida Hartmann 1913 [Actinophrydia Kühn 1926; Actinophrydea Hartmann 1913] Suborder Actinosphaerina Family Actinosphaeriidae Actinosphaerium Ritter von Stein 1857 [Echinosphaerium Hovasse 1965] — 4 species. Actinosphaerium eichhornii Actinosphaerium nucleofilum Actinosphaerium akamae Actinosphaerium arachnoideum Suborder Actinophryina Family Actinophryidae Dujardin 1841 Actinophrys Ehrenberg 1830 [Trichoda Müller 1773 nomen oblitum; Peritricha Bory de St.Vincent 1824 nomen dubium non Stein 1859] — 4 species. Actinophrys sol Actinophrys pontica Actinophrys salsuginosa Actinophrys tauryanini Family Helioraphidae Heliorapha — 1 species. Heliorapha azurina Gallery References Amoeboids Actinochrysophyceae
ASP may refer to: Combat ASP pistol ASP, Inc., law enforcement weapon manufacturer A type of extending baton Ammunition Supply Point, military storage facility for live ammunition and explosives Computing Active Server Pages, a web-scripting interface by Microsoft ASP.NET, a web-application framework by Microsoft Advanced Simple Profile, an MPEG-4 video codec profile Answer set programming, a declarative programming paradigm Application service provider, to customers over a network AppleTalk Session Protocol Association of Software Professionals Attached Support Processor, IBM hardware system Auxiliary storage pool, a feature of the IBM operating system Education American School of Paris Jan Matejko Academy of Fine Arts, Kraków, Poland Electronics Audio Signal Processor, large-scale digital signal processor Anti-skip protection or electronic skip protection in CD playback Angle-sensitive pixel, a light sensor Entertainment ASP (band), a German gothic metal band ASP (Japanese group), Japanese idol girl group Adult service provider (disambiguation) Apparent Sensory Perception, a thought recording and reproduction device in William Gibson's fiction Medicine and biology Aspartic acid, α-amino acid used in the biosynthesis of proteins Acylation stimulating protein American Society for Photobiology Amnesic shellfish poisoning Complement component 3, a protein in the complement system Antimicrobial stewardship, effort to educate and persuade prescribers of antimicrobials to follow evidence-based prescribing American Society of Primatologists Politics Act of the Scottish Parliament American Solidarity Party, a Christian Democratic political party in the United States Australian Sex Party Afro-Shirazi Party, political party in Tanzania Assembly for the Sovereignty of the Peoples, a political party in Bolivia Assembly of States Parties, the legislative body of the International Criminal Court Other uses Airborne Surveillance Platform, Indian defence project Albany Student Press, newspaper of the University at Albany, The State University of New York Alice Springs Airport (IATA airport code) Allegany State Park Appalachia Service Project, for housing improvement Arkansas State Police Asociación de Scouts del Perú Aspatria railway station, UK, National Rail code Assault system pod or A.S.P., for the G.I. Joe doll Association of Surfing Professionals, former name of World Surf League Assistant superintendent of police Astronomical Society of the Pacific Authorized service provider Avenal State Prison in California, USA Average selling price of goods See also ASPS (disambiguation) Asp (disambiguation)
ASL is a common initialism for American Sign Language, the sign language of the United States and Canada (not be confused with Auslan, also called ASL or Asilulu language which has the ISO code ASL), and may also refer to: Culture Sport American Soccer League (disambiguation) Australia's Surfing Life, surf magazine African Super League, a future CAF club competition Axpo Super League, former name of the Swiss Super League Other uses A Static Lullaby, American post-hardcore band Advanced Squad Leader, a tactical board wargame A shorted version of the following slang terms: age/sex/location, internet slang As hell, slang popular amongst members of Generation Z Average shot length, in film editing AfreecaTV StarCraft League, a video game tournament series Science and technology Aviation Aeronautical Syndicate Ltd, British aeroplane manufacturer. Air Serbia, ICAO airline code ASL Airlines Ireland, cargo airline Biology and medicine American Society of Lymphology, former name of the Lymphology Association of North America Argininosuccinate lyase, an enzyme Arterial spin labelling, a perfusion MRI technique Computing ACPI Source Language, for ACPI tables Adobe Source Libraries, open-source GUI software libraries Advanced Simulation Library, open-source hardware-accelerated multiphysics simulation software AMPL Solver Library, an open-source automatic differentiation library Apache Software License, an open-source license for software Application Services Library, a process model for the maintenance of software applications Arithmetic shift left, an operation implementing an arithmetic shift Other uses Above sea level, an altitude measurement Association for Symbolic Logic, of specialists in mathematical logic and philosophical logic Automated side loader, type of garbage collection truck Atmospheric Sciences Laboratory, a research institution formerly under the U.S. Army Materiel Command Society Education The American School in London Appalachian School of Law, Grundy, Virginia Art Students' League of Philadelphia Other uses Anti-Saloon League, an organization of temperance movements that lobbied for prohibition in the United States. Advanced stop line, a road marking at junctions Artists' Suffrage League, UK Autobacs Sportscar Laboratory, of Autobacs Seven, Japan Ansar al-Sharia in Libya, a Salafist Islamist militia group Animelo Summer Live, a Japanese music festival
Atomic semantics is a type of guarantee provided by a data register shared by several processors in a parallel machine or in a network of computers working together. Atomic semantics are very strong. An atomic register provides strong guarantees even when there is concurrency and failures. A read/write register R stores a value and is accessed by two basic operations: read and write(v). A read returns the value stored in R and write(v) changes the value stored in R to v. A register is called atomic if it satisfies the two following properties: 1) Each invocation op of a read or write operation: •Must appear as if it were executed at a single point τ(op) in time. •τ (op) works as follow: τb(op) ≤ τ (op) ≤ τe(op): where τb(op) and τe(op) indicate the time when the operation op begins and ends. •If op1 ≠ op2, then τ (op1)≠τ (op2) 2) Each read operation returns the value written by the last write operation before the read, in the sequence where all operations are ordered by their τ values. Atomic/Linearizable register: Termination: when a node is correct, sooner or later each read and write operation will complete. Safety Property (Linearization points for read and write and failed operations): Read operation:It appears as if happened at all nodes at some times between the invocation and response time. Write operation: Similar to read operation, it appears as if happened at all nodes at some times between the invocation and response time. Failed operation(The atomic term comes from this notion):It appears as if it is completed at every single node or it never happened at any node. Example : We know that an atomic register is one that is linearizable to a sequential safe register. The following picture shows where we should put the linearization point for each operation: An atomic register could be defined for a variable with a single writer but multi- readers (SWMR), single-writer/single-reader (SWSR), or multi-writer/multi-reader (MWMR). Here is an example of a multi-reader multi-writer atomic register which is accessed by three processes (P1, P2, P3). Note that R. read() → v means that the corresponding read operation returns v, which is the value of the register. Therefore, the following execution of the register R could satisfies the definition of the atomic registers: R.write(1), R.read()→1, R.write(3), R.write(2), R.read()→2, R.read()→2. See also Regular semantics Safe semantics References Atomic semantics are defined formally in Lamport's "On Interprocess Communication" Distributed Computing 1, 2 (1986), 77-101. (Also appeared as SRC Research Report 8). Concurrency control
Atle Selberg (14 June 1917 – 6 August 2007) was a Norwegian mathematician known for his work in analytic number theory and the theory of automorphic forms, and in particular for bringing them into relation with spectral theory. He was awarded the Fields Medal in 1950 and an honorary Abel Prize in 2002. Early years Selberg was born in Langesund, Norway, the son of teacher Anna Kristina Selberg and mathematician Ole Michael Ludvigsen Selberg. Two of his three brothers, Sigmund and Henrik, were also mathematicians. His other brother, Arne, was a professor of engineering. While he was still at school he was influenced by the work of Srinivasa Ramanujan and he found an exact analytical formula for the partition function as suggested by the works of Ramanujan; however, this result was first published by Hans Rademacher. He studied at the University of Oslo and completed his PhD in 1943. World War II During World War II, Selberg worked in isolation due to the German occupation of Norway. After the war, his accomplishments became known, including a proof that a positive proportion of the zeros of the Riemann zeta function lie on the line . During the war, he fought against the German invasion of Norway, and was imprisoned several times. Post-war in Norway After the war, he turned to sieve theory, a previously neglected topic which Selberg's work brought into prominence. In a 1947 paper he introduced the Selberg sieve, a method well adapted in particular to providing auxiliary upper bounds, and which contributed to Chen's theorem, among other important results. In 1948 Selberg submitted two papers in Annals of Mathematics in which he proved by elementary means the theorems for primes in arithmetic progression and the density of primes. This challenged the widely held view of his time that certain theorems are only obtainable with the advanced methods of complex analysis. Both results were based on his work on the asymptotic formula where for primes . He established this result by elementary means in March 1948, and by July of that year, Selberg and Paul Erdős each obtained elementary proofs of the prime number theorem, both using the asymptotic formula above as a starting point. Circumstances leading up to the proofs, as well as publication disagreements, led to a bitter dispute between the two mathematicians. For his fundamental accomplishments during the 1940s, Selberg received the 1950 Fields Medal. Institute for Advanced Study Selberg moved to the United States and worked as an associate professor at Syracuse University and later settled at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey in the 1950s, where he remained until his death. During the 1950s he worked on introducing spectral theory into number theory, culminating in his development of the Selberg trace formula, the most famous and influential of his results. In its simplest form, this establishes a duality between the lengths of closed geodesics on a compact Riemann surface and the eigenvalues of the Laplacian, which is analogous to the duality between the prime numbers and the zeros of the zeta function. He was awarded the 1986 Wolf Prize in Mathematics. He was also awarded an honorary Abel Prize in 2002, its founding year, before the awarding of the regular prizes began. Selberg received many distinctions for his work, in addition to the Fields Medal, the Wolf Prize and the Gunnerus Medal. He was elected to the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters, the Royal Danish Academy of Sciences and Letters and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. In 1972, he was awarded an honorary degree, doctor philos. honoris causa, at the Norwegian Institute of Technology, later part of Norwegian University of Science and Technology. His first wife, Hedvig, died in 1995. With her, Selberg had two children: Ingrid Selberg (married to playwright Mustapha Matura) and Lars Selberg. In 2003 Atle Selberg married Betty Frances ("Mickey") Compton (born in 1929). He died at home in Princeton, New Jersey on 6 August 2007 of heart failure. Selected publications Atle Selberg Collected Papers: 1 (Springer-Verlag, Heidelberg), References Further reading Albers, Donald J. and Alexanderson, Gerald L. (2011), Fascinating Mathematical People: interviews and memoirs, "Atle Selberg", pp 254–73, Princeton University Press, . Interview with Selberg External links Atle Selberg archive webpage Obituary at Institute for Advanced Study Obituary in The Times Atle Selbergs private archive exists at NTNU University Library 1917 births 2007 deaths 20th-century American mathematicians 21st-century American mathematicians Fields Medalists Institute for Advanced Study faculty Members of the Royal Danish Academy of Sciences and Letters Members of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters Norwegian emigrants to the United States Norwegian mathematicians Number theorists People from Bamble University of Oslo alumni Wolf Prize in Mathematics laureates Members of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences
The Amber Road was an ancient trade route for the transfer of amber from coastal areas of the North Sea and the Baltic Sea to the Mediterranean Sea. Prehistoric trade routes between Northern and Southern Europe were defined by the amber trade. As an important commodity, sometimes dubbed "the gold of the north", amber was transported from the North Sea and Baltic Sea coasts overland by way of the Vistula and Dnieper rivers to Italy, Greece, the Black Sea, Syria and Egypt over a period of thousands of years. Antiquity The oldest trade in amber started from Sicily. The Sicilian amber trade was directed to Greece, North Africa and Spain. Sicilian amber was also discovered in Mycenae by the archaeologist Heinrich Schliemann, and it appeared in sites in southern Spain and Portugal. Its distribution is similar to that of ivory, so it is possible that amber from Sicily reached the Iberian Peninsula through contacts with North Africa. After a decline in the consumption and trade of amber at the beginning of the Bronze Age, around 2000 BC, the influence of Baltic amber gradually took the place of the Sicilian one throughout the Iberian Peninsula starting around 1000 The new evidence comes from various archaeological and geological locations on the Iberian Peninsula. From at least the 16th century BC, amber was moved from Northern Europe to the Mediterranean area. The breast ornament of the Egyptian Pharaoh Tutankhamen ( ) contains large Baltic amber beads. Schliemann found Sicilian amber beads at Mycenae, as shown by spectroscopic investigation. The quantity of amber in the Royal Tomb of Qatna, Syria, is unparalleled for known second millennium sites in the Levant and the Ancient Near East. Amber was sent from the North Sea to the Temple of Apollo at Delphi as an offering. From the Black Sea, trade could continue to Asia along the Silk Road, another ancient trade route. In Roman times, a main route ran south from the Baltic coast (modern Lithuania), the entire north–south length of modern-day Poland (likely through the Iron Age settlement of Biskupin), through the land of the Boii (modern Czech Republic and Slovakia) to the head of the Adriatic Sea (Aquileia by the modern Gulf of Venice). Other commodities were exported to the Romans along with amber, such as animal fur and skin, honey, and wax, in exchange for Roman glass, brass, gold, and non-ferrous metals such as tin and copper imported into the early Baltic region. As this road was a lucrative trade route connecting the Baltic Sea to the Mediterranean Sea, Roman military fortifications were constructed along the route to protect merchants and traders from Germanic raids. The Old Prussian towns of Kaup and Truso on the Baltic were the starting points of the route to the south. In Scandinavia the amber road probably gave rise to the thriving Nordic Bronze Age culture, bringing influences from the Mediterranean Sea to the northernmost countries of Europe. Kaliningrad Oblast is occasionally referred to in Russian as , which means "the amber region" (see Kaliningrad Regional Amber Museum). Known roads by country Poland The shortest (and possibly oldest) road avoids alpine areas and led from the Baltic coastline (nowadays Lithuania and Poland), through Biskupin, Milicz, Wrocław, the Kłodzko Valley (less often through the Moravian Gate), crossed the Danube near Carnuntum in the Noricum province, headed southwest past Poetovio, Celeia, Emona, Nauportus, and reached Patavium and Aquileia at the Adriatic coast. One of the oldest directions of the last stage of the Amber Road to the south of the Danube, noted in the myth about the Argonauts, used the rivers Sava and Kupa, ending with a short continental road from Nauportus to Tarsatica in Rijeka on the coast of the Adriatic. Germany Several roads connected the North Sea and Baltic Sea, especially the city of Hamburg to the Brenner Pass, proceeding southwards to Brindisi (nowadays Italy) and Ambracia (nowadays Greece). Switzerland The Swiss region indicates a number of alpine roads, concentrating around the capital city Bern and probably originating from the banks of the Rhône and Rhine. The Netherlands A small section, including Baarn, Barneveld, Amersfoort and Amerongen, connected the North Sea with the Lower Rhine. Belgium A small section led southwards from Antwerp and Bruges to the towns Braine-l'Alleud and Braine-le-Comte, both originally named "Brennia-Brenna". The route continued by following the Meuse towards Bern in Switzerland. Southern France and Spain Routes connected amber finding locations at Ambares (near Bordeaux), leading to Béarn and the Pyrenees. Routes connecting the amber finding locations in northern Spain and in the Pyrenees were a trading route to the Mediterranean Sea. Mongolia Sources of archaeological finds suggest that routes may also have connected Mongolia to eastern Europe during the Kitan/Liao Period. Modern usage There is a tourist route stretching along the Baltic coast from Kaliningrad to Latvia called "Amber Road". "Amber Road" sites are: Mizgiris Amber Gallery-Museum in Nida; Amber Bay in Juodkrantė; Lithuania Minor History Museum; Amber collection place in Karklė, Lithuania; Palanga Amber Museum in Palanga; Open amber workshop in Palanga; Amber museum in Gdańsk; and Samogitian Alka in Šventoji. In Poland, the north–south motorway A1 is officially named Amber Highway. EV9 The Amber Route is a long-distance cycling route between Gdańsk, Poland and Pula, Croatia which follows the course of the Amber Road. References External links OWTRAD-scientific description of the amber road in Poland Old World Traditional Trade Routes (OWTRAD) Project Joannes Richter – "Die Bernsteinroute bei Backnang" (pdf file) Amber History of Europe Transport in Prussia Prehistoric Lithuania Prehistoric Poland Trade routes
Crandall University is a Baptist Christian liberal arts university located in Moncton, New Brunswick, Canada. It is affiliated with the Canadian Baptists of Atlantic Canada (Canadian Baptist Ministries). History The school was founded in 1949 under the name United Baptist Bible Training School (UBBTS), and served as both a secondary school and a Bible school by the Canadian Baptists of Atlantic Canada. Over two decades, the focus of the school gradually shifted toward post-secondary programs. In 1968, UBBTS became a Bible and junior Christian liberal arts college, and in 1970 the name was changed to Atlantic Baptist College (ABC). A sustained campaign to expand the school's faculty and improve the level of education resulted in ABC being able to grant full Bachelor of Arts degrees in 1983. Its campus at this time was located along the Salisbury Road, west of Moncton's central business district. The institution moved to a new campus built on the Gorge Road, north of the central business district, in 1996. The name was changed to Atlantic Baptist University (ABU), a reflection of expanded student enrolment and academic accreditation. In 2003, the ABU sports teams adopted the name The Blue Tide. The institution was the first, and thus far only, English-language university in Moncton. The Atlantic Baptist University Act was passed by the Legislative Assembly of New Brunswick in 2008. On August 21, 2009, it was announced that the institution had changed its name to Crandall University in honour of Rev. Joseph Crandall, a pioneering Baptist minister in the maritime region. In conjunction with the university name change, Crandall Athletics took on a new identity as "The Crandall Chargers." Controversy In 2012, Crandall University came under public scrutiny for receiving municipal funds for having a scripturally based hiring policy consistent with its denomination's tradition, that is, forbidding the hiring of non-celibate LGBTQ people. This has been characterized by the press as an anti-gay hiring policy. That same year, the Crandall Student Association publicly broke with the university's administration over the policy, with the student president at the time telling the CBC, "The Christian faith does say do not judge others. And the Christian faith is all about love. So I feel that this policy – to me – doesn’t seem like it’s following those specific guidelines." In 2013, a year after the controversy erupted, the university opted to not apply for $150,000 in public funding that it had received annually. The university president also issued an apology, stating: "We wish to apologize for anything that Crandall University might possibly have communicated in the past that may have seemed unloving or disrespectful in any way toward any individual or groups." Affiliations Crandall is an affiliate member of the Association of the Registrars of the Universities and Colleges of Canada (ARUCC); a full member of the ARUCC regional association, the Atlantic Association of Registrars and Admissions Officers (AARAO); an active member of Christian Higher Education Canada (CHEC); and an active member of the New Brunswick Association of Private Colleges and Universities. However, Crandall faculty are not members of the Canadian Association of University Teachers (CAUT). In their report, the CAUT found that "while the university has a statement on academic freedom, it is significantly inconsistent with that of the CAUT and the majority of universities across the western world, and assurances that free enquiry is still possible within its constraints are unconvincing." They therefore recommended that Crandall University "be placed on the list of institutions 'found to have imposed a requirement of a commitment to a particular ideology or statement of faith as a condition of employment.'" The university is affiliated with the Canadian Baptists of Atlantic Canada (Canadian Baptist Ministries). It is a member of the Council for Christian Colleges and Universities. Library and archives Crandall University houses the Baptist Heritage Center whose 300 artifacts preserve the material history of Atlantic Baptists, the Convention of Atlantic Baptist Churches, and its predecessor organizations. The collection and archives includes objects used in worship services, furniture, musical instruments, church building architecture pictures and printed material. Athletics Crandall University is represented in the Atlantic Collegiate Athletic Association (ACAA) by 8 varsity teams. The Chargers teams include men's and women's soccer, basketball, volleyball, and cross country. The Chargers also offer a boxing club program that competes internationally. The Chargers have won four ACAA banners: women's soccer in 2003–04, men's cross country in 2021–22, and both men's and women's cross country in 2022–23. Notable alumni David Alward – former Premier of New Brunswick Ken LeBlanc – entrepreneur Ralph Richardson – first chancellor of the university Cathy Rogers – politician See also List of schools in Moncton Higher education in New Brunswick List of universities and colleges in New Brunswick References External links Crandall University homepage Crandall Athletics homepage Education in Moncton Universities in New Brunswick 1949 establishments in New Brunswick Universities and colleges established in 1949 Baptist universities and colleges Baptist Christianity in Canada Council for Christian Colleges and Universities Christian universities and colleges in Canada Private universities and colleges in Canada
Ambient or Ambiance or Ambience may refer to: Arts and entertainment Ambiancé, an unreleased experimental film Ambient (novel), a novel by Jack Womack Music and sound Ambience (sound recording), also known as atmospheres or backgrounds Ambient music, a genre of music that puts an emphasis on tone and atmosphere Ambient (album), by Moby Ambience (album), by the Lambrettas Virgin Ambient series, a series of 24 albums released on the UK Virgin Records label between 1993 and 1997 Ambient 1–4, a set of four albums by Brian Eno, released by Obscure Records between 1978 and 1982 Stingray Ambiance, the channel "Ambiance" on the Singray music service Other Ambient (computation), a process calculus Ambient (desktop environment), a MUI-based desktop environment for MorphOS Mark Ambient (1860–1937), pen name of Harold Harley, English dramatist , a cruise ship Ambient Technologies, semiconductor company specialising in modem ICs, spun off from Cirrus Logic in 1999 and purchased by Intel in 2000 See also Ambient lighting (disambiguation)
August Horch (12 October 1868 – 3 February 1951) was a German engineer and automobile pioneer, the founder of the manufacturing giant which would eventually become Audi. Beginnings Horch was born in Winningen, Rhenish Prussia. His initial trade was as a blacksmith, and then was educated at (Mittweida Technical College). After receiving a degree in engineering, he worked in shipbuilding. Horch worked for Karl Benz from 1896, before founding A. Horch & Co. in November 1899, in Ehrenfeld, Cologne, Germany. Manufacturing The first Horch automobile was built in 1901. The company moved to Reichenbach in 1902 and Zwickau in 1904. Horch left the company in 1909 after a dispute, and set up in competition in Zwickau. His new firm was initially called Horch Automobil-Werke GmbH, but following a legal dispute over the Horch name, he decided to make another automobile company. (The court decided that Horch was a registered trademark on behalf of August's former partners and August was not entitled to use it any more). Consequently, Horch named his new company Audi Automobilwerke GmbH in 1910, Audi being the Latinization of Horch. Post Audi Horch left Audi in 1920 and went to Berlin and took various jobs. He published his autobiography, I Built Cars () in 1937. He also served on the board of Auto Union, the successor to Audi Automobilwerke GmbH he founded. Horch remained an honorary executive at Auto Union during and after its reincorporation in Ingolstadt, Bavaria in the late 1940s until his death in 1951, ultimately not living to see the later resurrection of his Audi brand a decade later under the ownership of Volkswagen. He was an honorary citizen of Zwickau and had a street named for his Audi cars in both Zwickau and his birthplace Winningen. He was made an honorary professor at Braunschweig University of Technology. An August Horchstrasse (August Horch Street) also exists at Audi's main manufacturing plant in Ingolstadt. References External links 1868 births 1951 deaths People from Mayen-Koblenz People from the Rhine Province Audi people German automotive pioneers German industrialists Auto Union Engineers from Rhineland-Palatinate Horch German founders of automobile manufacturers
An automatic number announcement circuit (ANAC) is a component of a central office of a telephone company that provides a service to installation and service technicians to determine the telephone number of a telephone line. The facility has a telephone number that may be called to listen to an automatic announcement that includes the caller's telephone number. The ANAC facility is useful primarily during the installation of landline telephones to quickly identify one of multiple wire pairs in a bundle or at a termination point. Operation By connecting a test telephone set, a technician calls the local telephone number of the automatic number announcement service. This call is connected to equipment at the central office that uses automatic equipment to announce the telephone number of the line calling in. The main purpose of this system is to allow telephone company technicians to identify the telephone line they are connected to. Automatic number announcement systems are based on automatic number identification. They are intended for use by phone company technicians, the ANAC system bypasses customer features, such as unlisted numbers, caller ID blocking, and outgoing call blocking. Installers of multi-line business services where outgoing calls from all lines display the company's main number on call display can use ANAC to identify a specific line in the system, even if CID displays every line as "line one". Most ANAC systems are provider-specific in each wire center, while others are regional or state-/province- or area-code-wide. No official lists of ANAC numbers are published, as telephone companies guard against abuse that would interfere with availability for installers. Exchange prefixes for testing The North American Numbering Plan reserves the exchange (central office) prefixes 958 and 959 for plant testing purposes. Code 959 with three or four additional digits is dedicated for access to office test lines in local exchange carrier and interoffice carrier central offices. The specifications define several test features for line conditions, such as quiet line and busy line, and test tones transmitted to callers. Telephone numbers are assigned for ring back to test the ringer when installing telephone sets, milliwatt tone (a number simply answers with a continuous test tone) and a loop around (which connects a call to another inbound call to the same or another test number). ANAC services are typically installed in the 958 range, which is intended for communications between central offices. In some area codes, multiple additional prefixes may be reserved for test purposes. Many area codes reserved 999; 320 was also formerly reserved in Bell Canada territory. Other carrier-specific North American test numbers include 555-XXXX numbers (such as 555-0311 on Rogers Communications in Canada) or vertical service codes, such as *99 on Cablevision/Optimum Voice in the United States. Telephone numbers Plant testing telephone numbers are carrier-specific, there is no comprehensive list of telephone numbers for ANAC services. In some communities, test numbers change relatively often. In others, a major incumbent carrier might assign a single number which provides test functions on its network across an entire numbering plan area, throughout an entire province or state, or system-wide. Some telecommunication carriers maintain toll-free numbers for ANAC facilities. Some national toll-free numbers provide automatic number identification by speaking the telephone number of the caller, but these are not intended for use in identifying the customer's own phone number. They are used for the agent in a call center to confirm the telephone a customer is calling from, so that the customer's account information can be displayed as a "screen pop" for the next available customer service representative. See also Plant test number Ringback number References Telephone numbers Telephony signals
Aristide Joseph Bonaventure Maillol (; December 8, 1861 – September 27, 1944) was a French sculptor, painter, and printmaker. Biography Maillol was born in Banyuls-sur-Mer, Roussillon. He decided at an early age to become a painter, and moved to Paris in 1881 to study art. After several applications and several years of living in poverty, his enrollment in the École des Beaux-Arts was accepted in 1885, and he studied there under Jean-Léon Gérôme and Alexandre Cabanel. His early paintings show the influence of his contemporaries Pierre Puvis de Chavannes and Paul Gauguin. Gauguin encouraged his growing interest in decorative art, an interest that led Maillol to take up tapestry design. In 1893 Maillol opened a tapestry workshop in Banyuls, producing works whose high technical and aesthetic quality gained him recognition for renewing this art form in France. He began making small terracotta sculptures in 1895, and within a few years his concentration on sculpture led to the abandonment of his work in tapestry. In July 1896, Maillol married Clotilde Narcis, one of his employees at his tapestry workshop. Their only son, Lucian, was born that October. Maillol's first major sculpture, A Seated Woman, was modeled after his wife. The first version (in the Museum of Modern Art, New York) was completed in 1902, and renamed La Méditerranée. Maillol, believing that "art does not lie in the copying of nature", produced a second, less naturalistic version in 1905. In 1902, the art dealer Ambroise Vollard provided Maillol with his first exhibition. The subject of nearly all of Maillol's mature work is the female body, treated with a classical emphasis on stable forms. The figurative style of his large bronzes is perceived as an important precursor to the greater simplifications of Henry Moore, and his serene classicism set a standard for European (and American) figure sculpture until the end of World War II. Josep Pla said of Maillol, "These archaic ideas, Greek, were the great novelty Maillol brought into the tendency of modern sculpture. What you need to love from the ancients is not the antiquity, it is the sense of permanent, renewed novelty, that is due to the nature and reason." His important public commissions include a 1912 commission for a monument to Cézanne, as well as numerous war memorials commissioned after World War I. Maillol served as a juror with Florence Meyer Blumenthal in awarding the Prix Blumenthal (1919–1954) a grant awarded to painters, sculptors, decorators, engravers, writers, and musicians. He made a series of woodcut illustrations for an edition of Vergil's Eclogues published by Harry Graf Kessler in 1926–27. He also illustrated Daphnis and Chloe by Longus (1937) and Chansons pour elle by Paul Verlaine (1939). He died in Banyuls at the age of eighty-three, in an automobile accident. While driving home during a thunderstorm, the car in which he was a passenger skidded off the road and rolled over. A large collection of Maillol's work is maintained at the Musée Maillol in Paris, which was established by Dina Vierny, Maillol's model and platonic companion during the last 10 years of his life. His home a few kilometers outside Banyuls, also the site of his final resting place, has been turned into a museum, the Musée Maillol Banyuls-sur-Mer, where a number of his works and sketches are displayed. Three of his bronzes grace the grand staircase of the Metropolitan Opera House in New York City: Summer (1910–11), Venus Without Arms (1920), and Kneeling Woman: Monument to Debussy (1950–55). The third, the artist's only reference to music, is a copy of an original created for the French city of Saint-Germain-en-Laye, Claude Debussy's birthplace. Nazi-looted art During the German occupation of France, dozens of artworks by Maillol were seized by the Nazi looting organization known as the E.R.R. or Reichsleiter Rosenberg Taskforce. The Database of Art Objects at the Jeu de Paume lists thirty artworks by Maillol. The German Lost Art Foundation database lists 33 entries for Maillol. The German Historical Museum's database for artworks recovered by the Allies at the Munich Central Collecting Point has 13 items related to Maillol. Maillol's sculpture "Head of Flora" was found in the stash of Cornelius Gurlitt, son of Hitler's art dealer Hildebrand Gurlitt together with lithographs, drawings and paintings. A photograph from May 24, 1946 shows "Six men, members of the Monuments, Fine Arts & Archives section of the military, prepare Aristide Maillol's sculpture Baigneuse à la draperie, looted during World War II for transport to France. Sculpture is labeled with sign: Wiesbaden, no. 31." Jewish art collectors whose artworks by Maillol were looted by Nazis include Hugo Simon, Alfred Flechtheim and many others. Works Mme Henry Clemens van de Velde (c. 1899) Action in Chains (1905) Flora, Nude (1910) L'Été sans bras (1911) Bathing Woman with Raised Arms (1921) Nymph (1930) The Mountain (1937) L'Air (1938) The River (1938–43) Harmonie (1944) References Sources Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, "Aristide Maillol, 1861-1944", New York, Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation, 1975. Frèches-Thory, Claire, & Perucchi-Petry, Ursula, ed.: Die Nabis: Propheten der Moderne, Kunsthaus Zürich & Grand Palais, Paris & Prestel, Munich 1993 (German), (French) Further reading Lorquin, Bertrand (1995). Maillol. Skira. . Rewald, John (1951). The Woodcuts of Aristide Maillol. New York: Pantheon Books. External links Masters of 20th Century Figure Sculpture Maillol Museum Aristide Maillol in Cultural Plunder by the Einsatzstab Reichsleiter Rosenberg: Database of Art Objects at the Jeu de Paume 1861 births 1944 deaths People from Pyrénées-Orientales French sculptors Modern sculptors French male painters French male sculptors Les Nabis Artists from Occitania (administrative region) Painters from Catalonia Sculptors from Catalonia 19th-century French painters 20th-century French painters 20th-century French male artists 19th-century French sculptors 20th-century French sculptors 19th-century French male artists École des Beaux-Arts alumni Prix Blumenthal Road incident deaths in France
Abijah ( ) is a Biblical Hebrew unisex name which means "my Father is Yah". The Hebrew form also occurs in the Bible. Old Testament characters Women Abijah, who married King Ahaz of Judah. She is also called Abi. Her father's name was Zechariah; she was the mother of King Hezekiah A wife of Hezron, one of the grandchildren of Judah Men Abijah of Judah, also known as Abijam (, , "My Father is Yam [Sea]"), who was son of Rehoboam and succeeded him on the throne of Judah A son of Becher, the son of Benjamin The second son of Samuel. His conduct, along with that of his brother, as a judge in Beersheba, to which office his father had appointed him, led to popular discontent, and ultimately provoked the people to demand a monarchy. A descendant of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, a chief of the eighth of the twenty-four orders into which the priesthood was divided by David and an ancestor of Zechariah, the priest who was the father of John the Baptist. The order of Abijah is listed with the priests and Levites who returned with Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel and with Joshua. A son of Jeroboam, the first king of Israel. On account of his severe illness when a youth, his father sent his wife to consult the prophet Ahijah regarding his recovery. The prophet, though blind with old age, knew the wife of Jeroboam as soon as she approached, and under a divine impulse he announced to her that inasmuch as in Abijah alone of all the house of Jeroboam there was found "some good thing toward the Lord", he only would come to his grave in peace. As his mother crossed the threshold of the door on her return, the youth died, and "all Israel mourned for him". According to The Jewish Encyclopedia, the good that he did "Rabbinical Literature:The passage, I Kings, xiv. 13, in which there is a reference to "some good thing [found in him] toward the Lord God of Israel," is interpreted as an allusion to Abijah's courageous and pious act in removing the sentinels placed by his father on the frontier between Israel and Judah to prevent pilgrimages to Jerusalem. Some assert that he himself undertook a pilgrimage." This name (possibly) appeared on the Gezer calendar, a Paleo-Hebrew inscription dating to the 9th or 10th century BC, making it one of the earliest if not the earliest Yahwistic theophoric names outside the Bible. Russian name The variant used in the Russian language is "" (), with "" or "" (), being older forms. Included into various, often handwritten, church calendars throughout the 17th–19th centuries, it was omitted from the official Synodal Menologium at the end of the 19th century. In 1924–1930, the name (as "", a form of "") was included into various Soviet calendars, which included the new and often artificially created names promoting the new Soviet realities and encouraging the break with the tradition of using the names in the Synodal Menologia. In Russian it is only used as a female name. Diminutives of this name include "" () and "" (). References Notes Sources Н. А. Петровский (N. A. Petrovsky). "Словарь русских личных имён" (Dictionary of Russian First Names). ООО Издательство "АСТ". Москва, 2005. А. В. Суперанская (A. V. Superanskaya). "Словарь русских имён" (Dictionary of Russian Names). Издательство Эксмо. Москва, 2005. Feminine given names Masculine given names 8th-century BC women Set index articles on Hebrew Bible people Women in the Hebrew Bible Samuel
Ark or ARK may refer to: Biblical narratives and religion Hebrew word teva Noah's Ark, a massive vessel said to have been built to save the world's animals from a flood Ark of bulrushes, the boat of the infant Moses Hebrew aron Ark of the Covenant, chest for the tablets of the Ten Commandments Torah ark, a cabinet used to store a synagogue's Torah scrolls Businesses and organizations Ark (charity), UK Ark (toy company), a former company Ark Invest, American asset management firm ARK Music Factory, a record label, Los Angeles, California, US The Ark, a weekly newspaper in Tiburon, California ARK Theatre Company in Los Angeles, California, US Media, arts and entertainment Fiction Works of fiction The Ark (Doctor Who), a 1966 Doctor Who serial Ark, a 1970 apocalyptic short film directed by Rolf Forsberg Ark II, a 1976 children's science fiction television series ARK (1996), a book of poetry by Ronald Johnson Ark (film), a 2005 animated science fiction film directed by Subro Adonis "The Ark" (Stargate Atlantis), a 2007 episode of Stargate Atlantis Ark (novel), a 2009 novel by Stephen Baxter Ark (web series), a 2010 science fiction series by Trey Stokes The Ark (film), a 2015 BBC TV film Ark: Survival Evolved, a 2017 video game The Ark (TV series), a 2023 SyFy television series Fictional story elements Ark (Gravitation), character in Gravitation Ark (Noon Universe), a planet Ark (Transformers), a spacecraft The Ark (Halo), control station ARK, space colony in video games Sonic Adventure 2 and Shadow the Hedgehog Ark, character in video game Terranigma The Ark, space stations housing humanity in The 100 (TV series) The Ark, a floating city and the main setting of the game Brink The Ark, fictional English pop rock band from Alice Oseman's third novel I Was Born For This Music Bands Ark (British band), a 1985 melodic rock band Ark (Bangladeshi band), a 1991 Bangladeshi rock band The Ark (Swedish band), a 1991 Swedish glam-rock band Ark (Norwegian band), a 1999 progressive metal band Albums Ark (The Animals album), 1983, by The Original Animals The Ark (album), 1991 album by Frank Zappa The Ark (EP), 1996, by Swedish band The Ark Ark (L'Arc-en-Ciel album), 1999, by Japanese rock band L'Arc-en-Ciel Here Comes the Indian, 2003 album by Animal Collective, reissued in 2020 as Ark Ark (Brendan Perry album), 2010, by Brendan Perry Ark (We Are the Ocean album), 2015, by We Are the Ocean Ark (In Hearts Wake album), 2017, by In Hearts Wake Songs "The Ark", 2008, by Dr. Dog from Fate Poetry "Ark", 2019 poem by Simon Armitage to commemorate launch of RRS Sir David Attenborough Video games Ark: Survival Evolved, a 2017 action adventure survival video game Places Buildings The Ark (fortress), 5th century AD, Bukhara, Uzbekistan The Ark (Duke University), an 1898 dance studio The Ark (folk venue), since 1965, Ann Arbor, Michigan, US The Ark (Prince Edward Island), a 1975 bioshelter in Canada The Ark (Tadcaster), historic building in England The Ark, London, a 1989 office block in Hammersmith, London, UK Ark Encounter, a 2016 creationist theme park, Kentucky, US Inhabited places Ark., an alternative abbreviation for Arkansas, United States Ark, Iran (disambiguation) Ark, Missouri, a ghost town in the United States Ark, Virginia, in Gloucester County, Virginia, United States Autonomous Region of Krajina, in Bosnia and Herzegovina Other places The Ark (Antarctica), a rock summit in Antarctica Transportation Ark (river boat), a temporary boat used in river transport in eastern North America , a prestigious ship name in the British Royal Navy, often the name of the Fleet Flagship, has been given to five ships The Ark (ship), a ship used in founding the Province of Maryland The Ark, a ship used as a Scottish Marine Station, now the basis of the University Marine Biological Station Millport The Ark, an unfinished sculpture in the form of a functional ship created by artist Kea Tawana between 1982 and 1988 in Newark, New Jersey Interstellar ark, a conceptual multi-lifetime space vehicle Ararat International Airlines, by ICAO airline designator Arusha Airport, by IATA airport code Arkadelphia (Amtrak station), by Amtrak station code Armoured Ramp Carrier, a specialist armoured vehicle Technology ARK (Archival Resource Key), a type of URL that serves as a persistent identifier for scientific and cultural objects , a software distribution founded by Bernhard Rosenkränzer Ark (search engine), a people search engine Ark (software), an archiving tool Hongmeng OS, an Android-compatible mobile operating system by Huawei Archaeological Recording Kit, a database and GIS web-based recording system for archaeology Other uses Ark Prize of the Free Word, a literary prize ARK (Atomska Ratna Komanda), a nuclear command bunker near Konjic, Bosnia and Herzegovina Netherlands Court of Audit (Algemene Rekenkamer) ARK (Access Research Knowledge), Northern Ireland Social and Political Archive See also Chicken ark, a mobile shelter for domestic chickens Knowledge ark, a collection of knowledge preserved in such a way that future generations would have access to said knowledge if current means of access were lost Arc (disambiguation) ARC (disambiguation) Arch (disambiguation) Arkana (disambiguation) ARRC (disambiguation)
Abimelech (also spelled Abimelek or Avimelech; ) was the generic name given to all Philistine kings in the Hebrew Bible from the time of Abraham through King David. In the Book of Judges, Abimelech, son of Gideon, of the Tribe of Manasseh, is proclaimed king of Shechem after the death of his father. Etymology The name or title Abimelech is formed from Hebrew words for "father" and "king," and may be interpreted in a variety of ways, including "Father-King", "My father is king," or "Father of a king." In the Pentateuch, it is used as a title for kings in the land of Canaan. Abimelech can be translated in Arabic as well into "My father is king", "My father is owner" or "Father of a king," where () means father or my father while () means king or () for owner. At the time of the Amarna tablets (mid-14th century BC), there was an Egyptian governor of Tyre similarly named Abimilki, Abimelech of Gerar Abimelech was most prominently the name of a polytheistic king of Gerar who is mentioned in two of the three wife–sister narratives in the Book of Genesis, in connection with both Abraham and Isaac. King Abimelech of Gerar also appears in an extra-biblical tradition recounted in texts such as the Arabic Apocalypse of Peter, the Cave of Treasures and the Conflict of Adam and Eve with Satan, as one of twelve regional kings in Abraham's time said to have built the city of Jerusalem for Melchizedek. Abimelech Son of Jerubbaal The Book of Judges mentions Abimelech, son of judge Gideon (also known as Jerubbaal). According to the biblical narrative, Abimelech was an extremely conniving and evil person. He persuaded his mother's brothers to encourage the people of Shechem to back him in a plot to overthrow his family rule and make him sole ruler. After slaying all but one of his seventy brothers, Abimelech was crowned king. The brother who escaped, Jotham youngest son of Jerrubaal, made a pronouncement against Abimelech and those who had crowned him. The curse was that if they had not dealt righteously with the family of Jerrubaal, then fire would come against Abimelech from the people of Shechem and fire would come out of Abimelech against the people who had backed him in this bloody coup. After Abimelech ruled for three years, the pronouncement came through. The people of Shechem set robbers to lie in wait of any goods or money headed to Abimelech and steal everything. Then Gaal Son of Ebed went to Shechem and drunkenly bragged that he would remove Abimelech from the throne. Zebul, ruler of Shechem, sent word to Abimelech along with a battle strategy. Once Zebul taunted Gaal into fighting Abimelech, he shut Gaal and his brethren out of the city. Abimelech then slew the field workers that came out of the city of Shechem the next day. When he heard that the people of Shechem had locked themselves in a strong tower, he and his men set fire to it, killing about a thousand men and women. After this, Abimelech went to Thebez and camped against it. When he went close to the tower in Thebez to set it on fire, a woman dropped an upper millstone on Abimelech's head. He did not want to be known as having been killed by a woman, so he asked his armour bearer to run him through with a sword. His place of death is cited as being Thebez. Russian use Avimelekh () is a Russian male first name derived from Abimelech. It was included into various, often handwritten, church calendars throughout the 17th–19th centuries, but was omitted from the official Synodal Menologium at the end of the 19th century. Other people with this name Apart from the king (or kings) of Gerar, the Bible also records this name for: The father of Abiathar, and high priest in the time of David. In the parallel passage, the name is given as Ahimelech; most authorities consider this the more correct reading. The king of Gath better known as Achish, referred to as Abimelech or Achimelech in the title of Psalm 34. The husband of Naomi, and father of Mahlon and Chilion who leaves Bethlehem and dies in the land of Moab, in the Hebrew, his name is given as Elimelek, which is likely the correct reading. Other literary references include: Abimélech, Satrap of Gaza is a character baritone in Camille Saint-Saëns' Samson and Delilah. See also Abimelech (oratorio) Wife–sister narratives in the Book of Genesis References Philistine kings Monarchs in the Torah Set index articles on Hebrew Bible people Vayeira Shechem
Andrew "Tridge" Tridgell (born 28 February 1967) is an Australian computer programmer. He is the author of and a contributor to the Samba file server, and co-inventor of the rsync algorithm. He has analysed complex proprietary protocols and algorithms, to allow compatible free and open source software implementations. Projects Tridgell was a major developer of the Samba software, analyzing the Server Message Block protocol used for workgroup and network file sharing by Microsoft Windows products. He developed the hierarchical memory allocator, originally as part of Samba. For his PhD dissertation, he co-developed rsync, including the rsync algorithm, a highly efficient file transfer and synchronisation tool. He was also the original author of rzip, which uses a similar algorithm to rsync. He developed spamsum, based on locality-sensitive hashing algorithms. He is the author of KnightCap, a reinforcement-learning based chess engine. Tridgell was also a leader in hacking the TiVo to make it work in Australia, which uses the PAL video format. In April 2005, Tridgell tried to produce free software (now known as SourcePuller) that interoperated with the BitKeeper source code repository. This was cited as the reason that BitMover revoked a license allowing Linux developers free use of their BitKeeper product. Linus Torvalds, the creator of the Linux kernel, and Tridgell were thus involved in a public debate about the events, in which Tridgell stated that, not having bought or owned BitKeeper – and thus having never agreed to its license – he could not violate it, and was analyzing the protocol ethically, as he had done with Samba. Tridgell's involvement in the project resulted in Torvalds accusing him of playing dirty tricks with BitKeeper. Tridgell claimed his analysis started with simply telneting to a BitKeeper server and typing help. In 2011 Tridgell got involved with the software development of ArduPilot Mega, an open source Arduino-based UAV controller board, working on an entry for the UAV Challenge Outback Rescue. Academic achievements Tridgell completed a PhD at the Computer Sciences Laboratory of the Australian National University. His original doctorate work was in the area of speech recognition but was never completed. His submitted dissertation 'Efficient Algorithms for Sorting and Synchronization' was based on his work on the rsync algorithm. Awards and honours In October 2003, The Bulletin magazine judged Tridgell to be Australia's smartest Information and Communications Technology person. In July 2008, Tridgell was named "Best Interoperator" at the Google–O'Reilly Open Source Awards, for his work on Samba and rsync. Tridgell (along with Jeremy Allison and Volker Lendecke) has been called a "guru in its traditional Indian meaning" by IT writer, Sam Varghese. On 11 December 2018, Tridgell was awarded the degree of Doctor of Science (Honoris Causa) by the Australian National University, for authoring Samba, co-inventing rsync; and contributions to free and open source software. On 26 January 2020, Tridgell was awarded the Medal (OAM) of the Order of Australia in the General Division for service to Information Technology. The biographical notes for the award noted his contributions to software development and education including his work on rsync, Samba, ArduPilot, MAVProxy as well as teaching at the Australian National University. References External links Andrew Tridgell's website, Newer Personal Website Andrew Tridgell's "Junk Code" collection Efficient Algorithms for Sorting and Synchronization (PhD thesis) – (406kB PDF) Active Directory in Samba 4 'an old story' FOSS folk who make us proud Patent Defence for Free Software, January 2010 presentation transcript Australian computer programmers Free software programmers IBM employees 1967 births Living people People from the Australian Capital Territory University of Sydney alumni Australian National University alumni Geeknet People educated at Barker College Recipients of the Medal of the Order of Australia
An ansible is a category of fictional devices or technology capable of near-instantaneous or faster-than-light communication. It can send and receive messages to and from a corresponding device over any distance or obstacle whatsoever with no delay, even between star systems. As a name for such a device, the word "ansible" first appeared in a 1966 novel by Ursula K. Le Guin. Since that time, the term has been broadly used in the works of numerous science fiction authors, across a variety of settings and continuities. A related term is ultrawave. Coinage by Ursula Le Guin Ursula K. Le Guin coined the word "ansible" in her 1966 novel Rocannon's World. The word was a contraction of "answerable", as the device would allow its users to receive answers to their messages in a reasonable amount of time, even over interstellar distances. The ansible was the basis for creating a specific kind of interstellar civilizationone where communications between far-flung stars are instantaneous, but humans can only travel at relativistic speeds. Under these conditions, a full-fledged galactic empire is not possible, but there is a looser interstellar organization, in which several of Le Guin's protagonists are involved. Although Le Guin invented the name "ansible" for this type of device, fleshed out with specific details in her fictional works, the broader concept of instantaneous or faster-than-light communication had previously existed in science fiction. For example, similar communication functions were included in a device called an interocitor in the 1952 novel This Island Earth by Raymond F. Jones, and the 1955 film based on that novel, and in the "Dirac Communicator", which first appeared in James Blish's short story "Beep" (1954), which was later expanded into the novel The Quincunx of Time (1973). Robert A. Heinlein in Time for the Stars (1958) employed instantaneous telepathic communication between identical twin pairs over interstellar distances, and like Le Guin, provided a technical explanation based on a non-Einsteinian principle of simultaneity. In Le Guin's works In her subsequent works, Le Guin continued to develop the concept of the ansible: In The Left Hand of Darkness (1969), Le Guin writes that the ansible "doesn't involve radio waves, or any form of energy. The principle it works on, the constant of simultaneity, is analogous in some ways to gravity ... One point has to be fixed, on a planet of certain mass, but the other end is portable." In The Word for World Is Forest (1972), Le Guin explains that in order for communication to work with any pair of ansibles, at least one "must be on a large-mass body, the other can be anywhere in the cosmos". In The Dispossessed (1974), Le Guin tells of the development of the theory leading up to the ansible. Any ansible may be used to communicate through any other, by setting its coordinates to those of the receiving ansible. They have a limited bandwidth, which only allows for at most a few hundred characters of text to be communicated in any transaction of a dialog session, and are attached to a keyboard and small display to perform text messaging. Use by later authors Since Le Guin's conception of the ansible, the name of the device has been borrowed by numerous authors. While Le Guin's ansible was said to communicate "instantaneously", the name has also been adopted for devices capable of communication at finite speeds that are faster than light. Orson Scott Card's works Orson Scott Card, in his 1977 novelette and 1985 novel Ender's Game and its sequels, used the term "ansible" as an unofficial name for the Philotic Parallax Instantaneous Communicator, a machine capable of communicating across infinite distances with no time delay. In Ender's Game, Colonel Graff states that "somebody dredged the name ansible out of an old book somewhere". In the universe of the Ender's Game series, the ansible's functions involved a fictional subatomic particle, the philote. The two quarks inside a pi meson can be separated by an arbitrary distance, while remaining connected by "philotic rays". This concept is similar to quantum teleportation due to entanglement; however, in reality, quark confinement prevents quarks from being separated by any observable distance. Card's version of the ansible was also featured in the video game Advent Rising, for which Card helped write the story, and in the movie Ender's Game, which was based on the book. Other writers Numerous other writers have included faster-than-light communication devices in their fictional works. Notable examples include: Christopher Rowley, in his 1986 novel Starhammer, describes the Deep Link, an instantaneous interstellar communicator. Most commonly used for messaging, it is capable of voice and video conversations as well, although the latter only at great expense. Vernor Vinge, in the 1988 short story "The Blabber" Elizabeth Moon, in the 1995 novel Winning Colors Jason Jones, in the 1995 computer game Marathon 2: Durandal L.A. Graf, in the 1996 Star Trek: Deep Space Nine novel Time's Enemy Philip Pullman, in the 2000 novel The Amber Spyglass, part of the His Dark Materials trilogy. Neal Asher, in his Polity series of novels including Gridlinked (2001), in which the runcible, named in homage to the ansible, is an interstellar wormhole generator/teleporter Dan Simmons, in the 2003 novel Ilium Liu Cixin, in the 2008 trilogy Remembrance of Earth's Past Kim Stanley Robinson, in the 2012 novel 2312 Becky Chambers, in her Wayfarer novels, including the 2014 novel The Long Way to a Small, Angry Planet, and 2016 novel A Closed and Common Orbit. Neon Yang, in the 2017 novella Waiting on a Bright Moon Joe M. McDermott, in the 2017 novel The Fortress at the End of Time Thomas Happ, in the 2021 console and PC video game Axiom Verge 2 Star Wars' New Jedi Order series featured enemies, the Yuuzhan Vong, use organic communication devices known as villips, which can transmit over infinite distances thanks to telepathic connections formed while being harvested in groups. Oliver Helm in the 2023 novel Swimming with Dolphins L.J Cohen in the 2014 novel Derelict See also Faster-than-light communication Interstellar communication No-cloning theorem Quantum entanglement Tachyon Tachyonic antitelephone References Further reading Faster-than-light communication Fictional technology
Ælfheah ( – 19 April 1012), more commonly known today as Alphege, was an Anglo-Saxon Bishop of Winchester, later Archbishop of Canterbury. He became an anchorite before being elected abbot of Bath Abbey. His reputation for piety and sanctity led to his promotion to the episcopate and, eventually, to his becoming archbishop. Ælfheah furthered the cult of Dunstan and also encouraged learning. He was captured by Viking raiders in 1011 during the siege of Canterbury and killed by them the following year after refusing to allow himself to be ransomed. Ælfheah was canonised as a saint in 1078. Thomas Becket, a later Archbishop of Canterbury, prayed to Ælfheah just before his own murder in Canterbury Cathedral in 1170. Life Ælfheah was born around 953, supposedly in Weston on the outskirts of Bath, and became a monk early in life. He first entered the monastery of Deerhurst, but then moved to Bath, where he became an anchorite (an ascetic monk, withdrawn from society). He was noted for his piety and austerity and rose to become abbot of Bath Abbey. The 12th century chronicler, William of Malmesbury recorded that Ælfheah was a monk and prior at Glastonbury Abbey, but this is not accepted by all historians. Indications are that Ælfheah became abbot at Bath by 982, perhaps as early as around 977. He perhaps shared authority with his predecessor Æscwig after 968. Probably due to the influence of Dunstan, the Archbishop of Canterbury (959–988), Ælfheah was elected Bishop of Winchester in 984, and was consecrated on 19 October that year. While bishop he was largely responsible for the construction of a large organ in the cathedral, audible from over a mile (1600 m) away and said to require more than 24 men to operate. He also built and enlarged the city's churches, and promoted the cult of Swithun and his own predecessor, Æthelwold of Winchester. One act promoting Æthelwold's cult was the translation of Æthelwold's body to a new tomb in the cathedral at Winchester, which Ælfheah presided over on 10 September 996. Following a Viking raid in 994, a peace treaty was agreed with one of the raiders, Olaf Tryggvason. Besides receiving danegeld, Olaf converted to Christianity and undertook never to raid or fight the English again. Ælfheah may have played a part in the treaty negotiations, and it is certain that he confirmed Olaf in his new faith. In 1006, Ælfheah succeeded Ælfric as Archbishop of Canterbury, taking Swithun's head with him as a relic for the new location. He went to Rome in 1007 to receive his pallium—symbol of his status as an archbishop—from Pope John XVIII, but was robbed during his journey. While at Canterbury, he promoted the cult of Dunstan, ordering the writing of the second Life of Dunstan, which Adelard of Ghent composed between 1006 and 1011. He also introduced new practices into the liturgy, and was instrumental in the Witenagemot's recognition of Wulfsige of Sherborne as a saint in about 1012. Ælfheah sent Ælfric of Eynsham to Cerne Abbey to take charge of its monastic school. He was present at the council of May 1008 at which Wulfstan II, Archbishop of York, preached his Sermo Lupi ad Anglos (The Sermon of the Wolf to the English), castigating the English for their moral failings and blaming the latter for the tribulations afflicting the country. In 1011, the Danes again raided England, and from 8–29 September they laid siege to Canterbury. Aided by the treachery of Ælfmaer, whose life Ælfheah had once saved, the raiders succeeded in sacking the city. Ælfheah was taken prisoner and held captive for seven months. Godwine (Bishop of Rochester), Leofrun (abbess of St Mildrith's), and the king's reeve, Ælfweard were captured also, but the abbot of St Augustine's Abbey, Ælfmær, managed to escape. Canterbury Cathedral was plundered and burned by the Danes following Ælfheah's capture. Death Ælfheah refused to allow a ransom to be paid for his freedom, and as a result was killed on 19 April 1012 at Greenwich, reputedly on the site of St Alfege's Church. The account of Ælfheah's death appears in the E version of the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle: Ælfheah was the first Archbishop of Canterbury to die a violent death. A contemporary report tells that Thorkell the Tall attempted to save Ælfheah from the mob about to kill him by offering everything he owned except for his ship, in exchange for Ælfheah's life; Thorkell's presence is not mentioned in the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, however. Some sources record that the final blow, with the back of an axe, was delivered as an act of kindness by a Christian convert known as "Thrum". Ælfheah was buried in Old St Paul's Cathedral. In 1023, his body was moved by King Cnut to Canterbury, with great ceremony. Thorkell the Tall was appalled at the brutality of his fellow raiders, and switched sides to the English king Æthelred the Unready following Ælfheah's death. Veneration Pope Gregory VII canonised Ælfheah in 1078, with a feast day of 19 April. Lanfranc, the first post-Conquest archbishop, was dubious about some of the saints venerated at Canterbury. He was persuaded of Ælfheah's sanctity, but Ælfheah and Augustine of Canterbury were the only pre-conquest Anglo-Saxon archbishops kept on Canterbury's calendar of saints. Ælfheah's shrine, which had become neglected, was rebuilt and expanded in the early 12th century under Anselm of Canterbury, who was instrumental in retaining Ælfheah's name in the church calendar. After the 1174 fire in Canterbury Cathedral, Ælfheah's remains together with those of Dunstan were placed around the high altar, at which Thomas Becket is said to have commended his life into Ælfheah's care shortly before his martyrdom during the Becket controversy. The new shrine was sealed in lead, and was north of the high altar, sharing the honour with Dunstan's shrine, which was located south of the high altar. A Life of Saint Ælfheah in prose and verse was written by a Canterbury monk named Osbern, at Lanfranc's request. The prose version has survived, but the Life is very much a hagiography; many of the stories it contains have obvious Biblical parallels, making them suspect as a historical record. In the late medieval period, Ælfheah's feast day was celebrated in Scandinavia, perhaps because of the saint's connection with Cnut. Few church dedications to him are known, with most of them occurring in Kent and one each in London and Winchester; as well as St Alfege's Church in Greenwich, a nearby hospital (1931–1968) was named after him. In Kent, there are two 12th-century parish churches dedicated to St Alphege at Seasalter and Canterbury. Reputedly his body lay in these churches overnight on his way back to Canterbury Cathedral for burial. In the town of Solihull in the West Midlands, St Alphege Church is dedicated to Ælfheah dating back to approximately 1277. In 1929, a new Roman Catholic church in Bath, the Church of Our Lady & St Alphege, was designed by Giles Gilbert Scott in homage to the ancient Roman church of Santa Maria in Cosmedin, and dedicated to Ælfheah under the name of Alphege. St George the Martyr with St Alphege & St Jude stands in Borough in London. Artistic representations of Ælfheah often depict him holding a pile of stones in his chasuble, a reference to his martyrdom. Notes Citations References Further reading External links 950s births 1012 deaths Clergy from Bath, Somerset Anglo-Saxon saints Archbishops of Canterbury Bishops of Winchester Martyred Roman Catholic priests 11th-century Christian saints 11th-century Christian martyrs Incorrupt saints Year of birth uncertain 11th-century English Roman Catholic archbishops Anglican saints Canonizations by Pope Gregory VII
In organic chemistry, hydrocarbons (compounds composed solely of carbon and hydrogen) are divided into two classes: aromatic compounds and aliphatic compounds (; G. aleiphar, fat, oil). Aliphatic compounds can be saturated (in which all the C-C bonds are single requiring the structure to be completed, or 'saturated', by hydrogen) like hexane, or unsaturated, like hexene and hexyne. Open-chain compounds, whether straight or branched, and which contain no rings of any type, are always aliphatic. Cyclic compounds can be aliphatic if they are not aromatic. Structure Aliphatic compounds can be saturated, joined by single bonds (alkanes), or unsaturated, with double bonds (alkenes) or triple bonds (alkynes). If other elements (heteroatoms) are bound to the carbon chain, the most common being oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, and chlorine, it is no longer a hydrocarbon, and therefore no longer an aliphatic compound. However, such compounds may still be referred to as aliphatic if the hydrocarbon portion of the molecule is aliphatic, e.g. aliphatic amines, to differentiate them from aromatic amines. The least complex aliphatic compound is methane (CH4). Properties Most aliphatic compounds are flammable, allowing the use of hydrocarbons as fuel, such as methane in natural gas for stoves or heating; butane in torches and lighters; various aliphatic (as well as aromatic) hydrocarbons in liquid transportation fuels like petrol/gasoline, diesel, and jet fuel; and other uses such as ethyne (acetylene) in welding. Examples of aliphatic compounds The most important aliphatic compounds are: n-, iso- and cyclo-alkanes (saturated hydrocarbons) n-, iso- and cyclo-alkenes and -alkynes (unsaturated hydrocarbons). Important examples of low-molecular aliphatic compounds can be found in the list below (sorted by the number of carbon-atoms): References Organic compounds
Abyssinia is a historical name for the Ethiopian Empire. Abyssinia may also refer to: Arts and media Abyssinia, a theatrical show by Bert Williams Abyssinia (musical), a show first staged in 1987 Abyssinia (1906 musical), 1906 Broadway musical by Will Marion Cook, Bert Williams, Jesse A. Shipp, and Alex Rogers "Abyssinia", a song by the Patti Smith Group on Radio Ethiopia Abyssinia, a 2003 novel by Ursula Dubosarsky "Abyssinia, Henry", an episode of the television series M*A*S*H Languages Abyssinian languages, family of languages spoken in Ethiopia, Eritrea, and Sudan People Abyssinian peoples, ethnic or pan-ethnic identifier used to refer to Ethiopians and Eritreans Places Abyssinia Lines, a neighbourhood of Jamshed Town in Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan Apostolic Vicariate of Abyssinia, the former Eastern Catholic missionary Vessels HMS Abyssinia (1870), a British armoured ship SS Abyssinia, an 1870 Canadian Pacific steamship Other uses Abyssinia (battle honour) Abyssinia Creek, The Pilbara, Western Australia See also Abyssinian (disambiguation) Habash (disambiguation) Habishi (disambiguation) History of Ethiopia
In mathematics, an algebraic extension is a field extension such that every element of the larger field is algebraic over the smaller field ; that is, every element of is a root of a non-zero polynomial with coefficients in . A field extension that is not algebraic, is said to be transcendental, and must contain transcendental elements, that is, elements that are not algebraic. The algebraic extensions of the field of the rational numbers are called algebraic number fields and are the main objects of study of algebraic number theory. Another example of a common algebraic extension is the extension of the real numbers by the complex numbers. Some properties All transcendental extensions are of infinite degree. This in turn implies that all finite extensions are algebraic. The converse is not true however: there are infinite extensions which are algebraic. For instance, the field of all algebraic numbers is an infinite algebraic extension of the rational numbers. Let be an extension field of , and . The smallest subfield of that contains and is commonly denoted If is algebraic over , then the elements of can be expressed as polynomials in with coefficients in K; that is, is also the smallest ring containing and . In this case, is a finite extension of (it is a finite dimensional -vector space), and all its elements are algebraic over . These properties do not hold if is not algebraic. For example, and they are both infinite dimensional vector spaces over An algebraically closed field F has no proper algebraic extensions, that is, no algebraic extensions E with F < E. An example is the field of complex numbers. Every field has an algebraic extension which is algebraically closed (called its algebraic closure), but proving this in general requires some form of the axiom of choice. An extension L/K is algebraic if and only if every sub K-algebra of L is a field. Properties The following three properties hold: If E is an algebraic extension of F and F is an algebraic extension of K then E is an algebraic extension of K. If E and F are algebraic extensions of K in a common overfield C, then the compositum EF is an algebraic extension of K. If E is an algebraic extension of F and E > K > F then E is an algebraic extension of K. These finitary results can be generalized using transfinite induction: This fact, together with Zorn's lemma (applied to an appropriately chosen poset), establishes the existence of algebraic closures. Generalizations Model theory generalizes the notion of algebraic extension to arbitrary theories: an embedding of M into N is called an algebraic extension if for every x in N there is a formula p with parameters in M, such that p(x) is true and the set is finite. It turns out that applying this definition to the theory of fields gives the usual definition of algebraic extension. The Galois group of N over M can again be defined as the group of automorphisms, and it turns out that most of the theory of Galois groups can be developed for the general case. Relative algebraic closures Given a field k and a field K containing k, one defines the relative algebraic closure of k in K to be the subfield of K consisting of all elements of K that are algebraic over k, that is all elements of K that are a root of some nonzero polynomial with coefficients in k. See also Integral element Lüroth's theorem Galois extension Separable extension Normal extension Notes References Field extensions
An Arene, or aromatic hydrocarbon, is a hydrocarbon with alternating double and single bonds between carbon atoms forming rings. Arene may also refer to: Arene (gastropod), a genus of marine snails in the family Areneidae Arene (mythology), the wife of Aphareus and mother of Idas and Lynceus in Greek mythology Arene, Elis, an ancient town in Elis, Greece, also known as Samiko Jean Arènes (1898–1960), French botanist who described many new species of the genus Dombeya Paul Arène (1843–1896), Provençal poet and French writer See also Arena (disambiguation)
Arthur Wellesley may refer to: Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington (1769–1852), Anglo-Irish soldier and British prime minister Arthur Wellesley, 2nd Duke of Wellington (1807–1884), British soldier and nobleman Arthur Wellesley, 4th Duke of Wellington (1849–1934), British soldier and nobleman Arthur Wellesley, 5th Duke of Wellington (1876–1941), British soldier and nobleman Arthur Wellesley, Marquess of Douro (born 1978), grandson of the 8th Duke Arthur Wellesley Hughes (1870–1950), also known as Arthur Wellesley, Canadian musician and composer Arthur Wellesley, 4th Earl Cowley (1890–1962), British actor and nobleman See also Arthur (disambiguation) Wellesley (disambiguation) Duke of Wellington (disambiguation)
These are lists of animated television series. Animated television series are television programs produced by means of animation. Animated series produced for theaters are not included in this lists; for those, see List of animated short film series. These lists include compilation series of theatrical shorts such as The Bugs Bunny Show since they often feature some new wrap-around animation. Lists by decade List of animated television series of the 1940s and 1950s List of animated television series of the 1960s List of animated television series of the 1970s List of animated television series of the 1980s List of animated television series of the 1990s List of animated television series of the 2000s List of animated television series of the 2010s List of animated television series of the 2020s Other lists List of animated television series created for syndication List of animated television series by episode count List of children's animated television series List of adult animated television series List of American prime time animated television series List of anime series by episode count List of anime franchises by episode count List of American animated television series List of Canadian animated television series List of Chinese animated television series List of French animated television series List of Indian animated television series List of Korean animated series List of Pakistani animated television series List of South African animated television series List of Flash animated television series List of animated series with LGBTQ characters External links 日本のテレビアニメ作品一覧 - Lists of Japanese animated television series on Japanese Wikipedia Don Markstein's Toonopedia – Very large index page The Big Cartoon Database 80sCartoons – Nostalgia for those who grew up in the 1980s in the West Anime sorted by release date, JP Works DB Lists of television series by genre
Anton Drexler (13 June 1884 – 24 February 1942) was a German far-right political agitator for the Völkisch movement in the 1920s. He founded the pan-German and anti-Semitic German Workers' Party (DAP), the antecedent of the Nazi Party (NSDAP). Drexler mentored his successor in the NSDAP, Adolf Hitler, during his early years in politics. Early life Born in Munich, Drexler was a machine-fitter before becoming a railway toolmaker and locksmith in Berlin. He is believed to have been disappointed with his income, and to have played the zither in restaurants to supplement his earnings. Drexler did not serve in the armed forces during World War I because he was deemed physically unfit for service. Politics During World War I, Drexler joined the German Fatherland Party, a short-lived far-right party active during the last phase of the war, which played a significant role in the emergence of the stab-in-the-back myth and the defamation of certain politicians as the "November Criminals". In March 1918, Drexler founded a branch of the Free Workers' Committee for a Good Peace (Der Freie Arbeiterausschuss für einen guten Frieden) league. Karl Harrer, a journalist and member of the Thule Society, convinced Drexler and several others to form the Political Workers' Circle (Politischer Arbeiter-Zirkel) in 1918. The members met periodically for discussions about nationalism and antisemitism. German Workers' Party Together with Harrer, Drexler founded the German Workers' Party (DAP) in Munich on 5 January 1919. At a DAP meeting in Munich in September 1919, the main speaker was Gottfried Feder. When Feder's lecture concluded, Adolf Hitler – who attended the meeting as part of his assignment from the German Army to watch political agitators – got involved in a heated political argument with a visitor, Professor Adalbert Baumann, who questioned the soundness of Feder's arguments in support of Bavarian separatism and against capitalism. In vehemently attacking the man's arguments, Hitler made an impression on the other party members with his oratorical abilities, and according to him, the professor left the hall acknowledging defeat. Drexler approached Hitler and gave him a copy of his pamphlet My Political Awakening, which contained anti-Semitic, socialist, anti-capitalist ideas. Hitler claims the literature reflected the ideals he already believed in. Impressed with Hitler, Drexler encouraged him to join the DAP. On the orders of his army superiors, Hitler applied to join the party. Once accepted, Hitler began to make the party more public by drawing people in with his speaking abilities, leading up to his organizing the party's biggest meeting yet, which attracted 2,000 people to the Hofbräuhaus in Munich on 24 February 1920. It was in this speech that Hitler, for the first time, enunciated the twenty-five points of the German Worker's Party's manifesto that he had authored with Drexler and Feder. Through these points he gave the organisation a foreign policy, including the abrogation of the Treaty of Versailles, a Greater Germany, Eastern expansion, and exclusion of Jews from citizenship. On the same day the party was renamed the National Socialist German Workers' Party (Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei, NSDAP). Following an intraparty dispute, Hitler angrily tendered his resignation on 11 July 1921. Drexler and the members of the party's governing committee realised that the resignation of their leading public figure and speaker would mean the end of the party. So Dietrich Eckart was asked by the Party leadership to speak with Hitler and relay the conditions in which he would agree to return. Hitler announced he would rejoin the party on the condition that he would replace Drexler as party chairman, with dictatorial powers and the title of "Führer", and that the party headquarters would remain in Munich. The committee agreed and he rejoined the party as member 3,680. Drexler was thereafter moved to the purely symbolic position of honorary president and left the party in 1923. Drexler was also a member of a völkisch political club for affluent members of Munich society known as the Thule Society. His membership in the Nazi Party ended when it was temporarily outlawed in 1923 following the Beer Hall Putsch, although Drexler had not taken part in the coup attempt. In 1924 he was elected to the Bavarian state parliament for the Völkisch-Social Bloc party (VSB), in which he served as vice president until 1928. He played no role in the Nazi Party's re-founding in February 1925 and rejoined only after Hitler ascended to national power in 1933. In May 1925 he founded a group with other VSB deputies, the Nationalsozialer Volksbund (National Social People's League), but was dissolved in 1927–1928. Drexler received the Nazi Party's Blood Order in 1934, and was still occasionally used as a propaganda tool until about 1937, but was never allowed any power within the party. Death Drexler died in Munich in February 1942 after a lengthy illness due to alcoholism. References Bibliography Further reading External links Mein politisches Erwachen; aus dem Tagebuch eines deutschen sozialistischen Arbeiters München, Deutscher Volksverlag 4th ed. 1884 births 1942 deaths German anti-capitalists German anti-communists German Workers Party members German Fatherland Party politicians German nationalists Nazi Party officials Politicians from the Kingdom of Bavaria Political party founders Politicians from Munich Right-wing anti-capitalism Thule Society members Alcohol-related deaths in Nazi Germany
The Artistic License is an open-source license used for certain free and open-source software packages, most notably the standard implementation of the Perl programming language and most CPAN modules, which are dual-licensed under the Artistic License and the GNU General Public License (GPL). History Artistic License 1.0 The original Artistic License was written by Larry Wall. The name of the license is a reference to the concept of artistic license. Whether or not the original Artistic License is a free software license is largely unsettled. The Free Software Foundation explicitly called the original Artistic License a non-free license, criticizing it as being "too vague; some passages are too clever for their own good, and their meaning is not clear". The FSF recommended that the license not be used on its own, but approved the common AL/GPL dual-licensing approach for Perl projects. In response to this, Bradley Kuhn, who later worked for the Free Software Foundation, made a minimal redraft to clarify the ambiguous passages. This was released as the Clarified Artistic License and was approved by the FSF. It is used by the Paros Proxy, the JavaFBP toolkit and NcFTP. The terms of the Artistic License 1.0 were at issue in Jacobsen v. Katzer in the initial 2009 ruling by the United States District Court for the Northern District of California declared that FOSS-like licenses could only be enforced through contract law rather than through copyright law, in contexts where contract damages would be difficult to establish. On appeal, a federal appellate court "determined that the terms of the Artistic License are enforceable copyright conditions". The case was remanded to the District Court, which did not apply the superior court's criteria on the grounds that, in the interim, the governing Supreme Court precedent applicable to the case had changed. However, this left undisturbed the finding that a free and open-source license nonetheless has economic value. Jacobsen ultimately prevailed in 2010, and the Case established a new standard making terms and conditions under Artistic License 1.0 enforceable through copyright statutes and relevant precedents. Artistic License 2.0 In response to the Request for Comments (RFC) process for improving the licensing position for Perl 6, Kuhn's draft was extensively rewritten by Roberta Cairney and Allison Randal for readability and legal clarity, with input from the Perl community. This resulted in the Artistic License 2.0, which has been approved as both a free software and open source license. The Artistic license 2.0 is also notable for its excellent license compatibility with other FOSS licenses due to a relicensing clause, a property other licenses like the GPL lack. It has been adopted by some of the Perl 6 implementations, the Mojolicious framework, NPM, and has been used by the Parrot virtual machine since version 0.4.13. It is also used by the SNEeSe emulator, which was formerly licensed under the Clarified Artistic License. The OSI recommends that all developers and projects licensing their products with the Artistic License adopt Artistic License 2.0. See also Software using the Artistic license (category) References External links Version 1.0 The Artistic LicenseThe original Artistic License 1.0, the one which is still used by Perl and CPAN; They use a disjunction of the Artistic License 1.0 and the GNU GPL for Perl 5 and above. The Clarified Artistic License Version 2.0 The Artistic License 2.0It's e.g. used by Parrot. 2.0 revision RFC process Prominent uses DuskThe first online Novel and Blog written under Artistic License 2.0. "R.E.M releases videos under Artistic License 2.0Is about R.E.M.'s choice of the Artistic License 2.0 for videos from one of their albums. Free and open-source software licenses
In Greek mythology, Aeolus or Aiolos (; , ) is a name shared by three mythical characters. These three personages are often difficult to tell apart, and even the ancient mythographers appear to have been perplexed about which Aeolus was which. Diodorus Siculus made an attempt to define each of these three (although it is clear that he also became muddled), and his opinion is followed here. The first Aeolus was a son of Hellen and the eponymous founder of the Aeolian race. The second Aeolus was a son of Poseidon, who led a colony to islands in the Tyrrhenian Sea. The third Aeolus was a son of Hippotes who is mentioned in the Odyssey and the Aeneid as the ruler of the winds. All three men named Aeolus appear to be connected genealogically, although the precise relationship, especially regarding the second and third Aeolus, is often ambiguous as their identities seem to have been merged by many ancient writers. Aeolus was also the name of the following minor characters: Aeolus, a defender of Thebes in the war of the Seven against Thebes. He was killed by Parthenopaeus. Aeolus, a Trojan companion of Aeneas in Italy, where he was killed by Turnus, King of the Rutulians. Aeolus was the father of Clytius and Misenus. See also Aeolia (mythical island), island kingdom of Aeolus, ruler of the winds Notes References Apollodorus, Apollodorus, The Library, with an English Translation by Sir James George Frazer, F.B.A., F.R.S. in 2 Volumes. Cambridge, Massachusetts, Harvard University Press; London, William Heinemann Ltd. 1921. . Online version at the Perseus Digital Library. Hyginus, Gaius Julius, Fabulae, in The Myths of Hyginus, edited and translated by Mary A. Grant, Lawrence: University of Kansas Press, 1960. Online version at ToposText. Homer, The Odyssey with an English Translation by A.T. Murray, PH.D. in two volumes. Cambridge, Massachusetts, Harvard University Press; London, William Heinemann, Ltd. 1919. Online version at the Perseus Digital Library. Kerényi, Karl, The Gods of the Greeks, Thames and Hudson, London, 1951. Internet Archive. Parada, Carlos, Genealogical Guide to Greek Mythology, Jonsered, Paul Åströms Förlag, 1993. . Rose, H. J., s.v. Aeolus (2) in the Oxford Classical Dictionary, second edition, Hammond, N.G.L. and Howard Hayes Scullard (editors), Oxford University Press, 1992. . Smith, William, Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology, London (1873). Online version at the Perseus Digital Library. Statius, Statius with an English Translation by J. H. Mozley, Volume II, Thebaid, Books V–XII, Achilleid, Loeb Classical Library No. 207, London: William Heinemann, Ltd., New York: G. P. Putnamm's Sons, 1928. . Internet Archive. Thomas, Richard. F., "The Isolation of Turnus, Aeneid, book 12", in Vergil's Aeneid: Augustan Epic and Political Context, Hans-Peter Stahl (ed.), Classical Press of Wales, pp. 271–303. . Virgil, Aeneid, Theodore C. Williams. trans. Boston. Houghton Mifflin Co. 1910. Online version at the Perseus Digital Library. de Weever, Jaqueline, Chaucer Name Dictionary, Garland Publishing, Inc., New York and London, 1988, 1996. Trojans Characters in the Aeneid Characters in Seven against Thebes
ABCD is a list of the first four letters in the English alphabet. It may also refer to: Film ABCD (film), a 2005 Indian Tamil-language romance film ABCD: American Born Confused Desi (disambiguation), various Indian films so titled ABCD: Any Body Can Dance, a 2013 Indian Hindi-language dance-drama film by Remo D'Souza ABCD 2, its 2015 sequel film by D'Souza Medicine ABC (medicine), also known as ABCD, a mnemonic for steps in resuscitation ABCD rating, a staging system for prostate cancer ABCD syndrome, a genetic disorder ABCD1, a protein ABCD2 score, a score for determining the risk of stroke after a transient ischemic attack Science ABCD Schema, a highly structured data exchange and access model for taxon occurrence data (specimens, observations, etc. of living organisms) ABCD matrix analysis, a type of ray tracing technique used in the design of some optical systems ABCD-parameters, a type of properties describing the electrical behavior of linear electrical networks Other uses ABCd, American streaming service Action for Boston Community Development, a Boston, Massachusetts-based non-profit social services agency Asset-based community development, a methodology that seeks to uncover and highlight the strengths within communities Association of Better Computer Dealers, former name of CompTIA, an American non-profit trade association ABCD Region, an industrial district outside of São Paulo, Brazil American-Born Confused Desi, informal term for South Asian Americans born or raised in the United States ABCD: add, browse, change, delete, another representation of create, read, update and delete ABCD line, a Japanese term for embargoes placed against Japan by the Americans, British, Chinese and Dutch, as well as other countries ABCD ships, the first four steel ships built during the "New Navy" period of U.S. Naval history - USS Atlanta, Boston, Chicago and Dolphin Four major agriculture commodity companies Archer-Daniels-Midland Bunge Cargill Louis Dreyfus
Arcology, a portmanteau of "architecture" and "ecology", is a field of creating architectural design principles for very densely populated and ecologically low-impact human habitats. The term was coined in 1969 by architect Paolo Soleri, who believed that a completed arcology would provide space for a variety of residential, commercial, and agricultural facilities while minimizing individual human environmental impact. These structures have been largely hypothetical, as no large-scale arcology has yet been built. The concept has been popularized by various science fiction writers. Larry Niven and Jerry Pournelle provided a detailed description of an arcology in their 1981 novel Oath of Fealty. William Gibson mainstreamed the term in his seminal 1984 cyberpunk novel Neuromancer, where each corporation has its own self-contained city known as arcologies. More recently, authors such as Peter Hamilton in Neutronium Alchemist and Paolo Bacigalupi in The Water Knife explicitly used arcologies as part of their scenarios. They are often portrayed as self-contained or economically self-sufficient. Development An arcology is distinguished from a merely large building in that it is designed to lessen the impact of human habitation on any given ecosystem. It could be self-sustainable, employing all or most of its own available resources for a comfortable life: power, climate control, food production, air and water conservation and purification, sewage treatment, etc. An arcology is designed to make it possible to supply those items for a large population. An arcology would supply and maintain its own municipal or urban infrastructures in order to operate and connect with other urban environments apart from its own. Arcologies were proposed in order to reduce human impact on natural resources. Arcology designs might apply conventional building and civil engineering techniques in very large, but practical projects in order to achieve pedestrian economies of scale that have proven, post-automobile, to be difficult to achieve in other ways. Frank Lloyd Wright proposed an early version called Broadacre City although, in contrast to an arcology, his idea is comparatively two-dimensional and depends on a road network. Wright's plan described transportation, agriculture, and commerce systems that would support an economy. Critics said that Wright's solution failed to account for population growth, and assumed a more rigid democracy than the US actually has. Buckminster Fuller proposed the Old Man River's City project, a domed city with a capacity of 125,000, as a solution to the housing problems in East St. Louis, Illinois. Paolo Soleri proposed later solutions, and coined the term "arcology". Soleri describes ways of compacting city structures in three dimensions to combat two-dimensional urban sprawl, to economize on transportation and other energy uses. Like Wright, Soleri proposed changes in transportation, agriculture, and commerce. Soleri explored reductions in resource consumption and duplication, land reclamation; he also proposed to eliminate most private transportation. He advocated for greater "frugality" and favored greater use of shared social resources, including public transit (and public libraries). Similar real-world projects Arcosanti is an experimental "arcology prototype", a demonstration project under construction in central Arizona since 1970. Designed by Paolo Soleri, its primary purpose is to demonstrate Soleri's personal designs, his application of principles of arcology to create a pedestrian-friendly urban form. Many cities in the world have proposed projects adhering to the design principles of the arcology concept, like Tokyo, and Dongtan near Shanghai. The Dongtan project may have collapsed, and it failed to open for the Shanghai World Expo in 2010. McMurdo Station of the United States Antarctic Program and other scientific research stations on Antarctica resemble the popular conception of an arcology as a technologically advanced, relatively self-sufficient human community. The Antarctic research base provides living and entertainment amenities for roughly 3,000 staff who visit each year. Its remoteness and the measures needed to protect its population from the harsh environment give it an insular character. The station is not self-sufficientthe U.S. military delivers 30,000 cubic metres (8,000,000 US gal) of fuel and of supplies and equipment yearly through its Operation Deep Freeze resupply effortbut it is isolated from conventional support networks. Under international treaty, it must avoid damage to the surrounding ecosystem. Begich Towers operates like a small-scale arcology encompassing nearly all of the population of Whittier, Alaska. The building contains residential housing as well as a police station, grocery, and municipal offices. Whittier once boasted a second structure known as the Buckner Building. The Buckner Building still stands but was deemed unfit for habitation after the 1969 earthquake. The Line is a long and wide linear smart city under construction in Saudi Arabia in Neom, Tabuk Province, which is designed to have no cars, streets or carbon emissions. The Line is planned to be the first development in Neom, a $500 billion project. The city's plans anticipate a population of 9 million. Excavation work had started along the entire length of the project by October 2022. In popular culture Most proposals to build real arcologies have failed due to financial, structural or conceptual shortcomings. Arcologies are therefore found primarily in fictional works. In Robert Silverberg's The World Inside, most of the global population of 75 billion live inside giant skyscrapers, called "urbmons", each of which contains hundreds of thousands of people. The urbmons are arranged in "constellations". Each urbmon is divided into "neighborhoods" of 40 or so floors. All the needs of the inhabitants are provided inside the building – food is grown outside and brought into the building – so the idea of going outside is heretical and can be a sign of madness. The book examines human life when the population density is extremely high. Another significant example is the 1981 novel Oath of Fealty by Larry Niven and Jerry Pournelle, in which a segment of the population of Los Angeles has moved into an arcology. The plot examines the social changes that result, both inside and outside the arcology. Thus the arcology is not just a plot device but a subject of critique. In the city-building video game SimCity 2000, self-contained arcologies can be built, reducing the infrastructure needs of the city. See also References Notes Further reading Soleri, Paolo. Arcology: The City in the Image of Man. 1969: Cambridge, Massachusetts, MIT Press. External links Arcology: The City in the Image of Man by Paolo Soleri (full text online) Arcology.com – useful links The Night Land by William Hope Hodgson (full text online) Victory City A discussion of arcology concepts What is an Arcology? Usage of "arcology" vs. "hyperstructure" Arcology.com ("An arcology in southern China" on front page) Arcology ("An arcology is a self-contained environment...") SculptorsWiki: Arcology ("The only arcology yet on Earth...") Review of Shadowrun: Renraku Arcology ("What's an arcology? A self-contained, largely self-sufficient living, working, recreational structure...") Megastructures Exploratory engineering Environmental design Human habitats Planned communities Urban studies and planning terminology Emerging technologies Cyberpunk themes Architecture related to utopias
Abdulaziz al-Omari (, , also transliterated as Alomari or al-Umari; 28 May 1979 – 11 September 2001) was a Saudi terrorist hijacker who was one of five hijackers of American Airlines Flight 11 as part of the 11 September attacks in 2001. Prior to the terrorist attack, al-Omari was an airport security guard and imam. Al-Omari arrived in the United States in June 2001, on a tourist visa, obtained through the Visa Express program. On 11 September 2001, al-Omari boarded American Airlines Flight 11 and assisted in the hijacking of the plane, which was crashed into the North Tower of the World Trade Center, as part of the coordinated attacks. Early life and education Little is known about al-Omari's life, and it is unclear whether some information refers to Omari or another person by that name. He had used the birth date 28 May 1979. It is alleged al-Omari graduated with honors from high school, attained a degree from Imam Muhammad ibn Saud Islamic University, was married and had a daughter briefly before the attacks. Career Al-Omari is alleged to have often served as an imam at his mosque in Saudi Arabia and is believed by American authorities to have been a student of Saudi cleric Sulaiman Al-Alwan, whose mosque is located in Al-Qassim Province. According to Walid bin Attash, al-Omari was one of a group of future hijackers who provided security at Kandahar airport after their basic training at an al-Qaeda camp. During the 2000 Al Qaeda Summit in Kuala Lumpur, American authorities state that immigration records show that a person named Abdulaziz al-Omari was visiting the country, although they say they are not sure that this was the same person. In the autumn of 2001, after the 11 September attacks, al Jazeera television broadcast a tape they claim was made by al-Omari. The speaker made a farewell suicide video. In it he read, "I am writing this with my full conscience and I am writing this in expectation of the end, which is near. . . God praise everybody who trained and helped me, namely the leader Sheikh Osama bin Laden." According to FBI director Robert Mueller and the 9/11 Commission, al-Omari entered the United States through a Dubai flight on 29 June 2001, with Salem al-Hazmi, landing in New York. He had used the controversial Visa Express program to gain entry. He apparently stayed with several other hijackers in Paterson, New Jersey, before moving to his own place at 4032 57th Terrace, Vero Beach, Florida. On his rental agreement form for that house, al-Omari gave two license-plates authorized to park in his space, one of which was registered to Atta. Al-Omari obtained a fake United States ID card from All Services Plus in Passaic County, New Jersey, which was in the business of selling fake documents, including another to Khalid al-Mihdhar. He was married and had a daughter. September 11 attacks On 10 September 2001, Mohamed Atta picked up al-Omari from the Milner Hotel in Boston, Massachusetts, and the two drove their rented Nissan car to a Comfort Inn in South Portland, Maine, where they spent the night in room 232. It was initially reported that Adnan and Ameer Bukhari were the two hijackers who had rented and driven the car. In the early hours of 11 September, they boarded a commuter flight back to Boston to connect to American Airlines Flight 11. American 11 was hijacked 15 minutes after the flight departed by al-Omari and four other hijackers, which allowed trained pilot Mohamed Atta to crash the Boeing 767 into the North Tower of the World Trade Center as part of an attack that killed thousands of people. Mistaken identity allegations Controversy over the identity of al-Omari erupted shortly after the attacks. At first, the FBI had named Abdul Rahman al-Omari, a pilot for Saudi Arabian Airlines, as the pilot of Flight 11. It was quickly shown that this person was still alive, and the FBI issued an apology. It was also quickly determined that Mohamed Atta was the pilot among the hijackers. The FBI then named Abdulaziz al-Omari as a hijacker. A man with the same name as those given by the FBI turned up alive in Saudi Arabia, saying that he had studied at the University of Denver and his passport was stolen there in 1995. The name, origin, birth date, and occupation were released by the FBI, but the picture was not of him. "I couldn't believe it when the FBI put me on their list", he said. "They gave my name and my date of birth, but I am not a suicide bomber. I am here. I am alive. I have no idea how to fly a plane. I had nothing to do with this." See also PENTTBOM Hijackers in the 11 September attacks References External links The Final 9/11 Commission Report portal.telegraph.co.uk (Article which reports that the Saudi Arabian Airlines pilot named Omari was not involved with the terrorist attacks) 1979 births 2001 deaths American Airlines Flight 11 Participants in the September 11 attacks People from Al-Bahah Province Saudi Arabian al-Qaeda members Saudi Arabian mass murderers
Anglo-Saxons were Germanic tribes that settled in Britain and founded England. Anglo-Saxon may also refer to: Anglo-Saxon (anthropology) or Nordic race, outdated racial concept Anglo-Saxon England, the history of Anglo-Saxons Anglo-Saxon model, modern macroeconomic term Anglo-Saxon world, modern societies based on or influenced by English customs Old English or Anglo-Saxon, the earliest historical form of the English language , one of several ships White Anglo-Saxon Protestant, sociological term in the U.S. Anglo-Saxons (slur), a derogatory term for English-speaking countries used in Russian propaganda CSS Anglo-Saxon, a Confederate warship See also Anglo (disambiguation), a prefix Saxon (disambiguation)
Afghans (; Persian/) or Afghan people are nationals or citizens of Afghanistan, or people with ancestry from there. Afghanistan is made up of various ethnicities, of which Pashtuns, Tajiks, Hazaras and Uzbeks are the largest. The two main languages spoken by Afghans are Pashto and Dari (the Afghan dialect of the Persian language), and many Afghans are bilingual in speaking fluent Pashto and Dari. Background The earliest mention of the name Afghan (Abgân) is by Shapur I of the Sassanid Empire during the 3rd century CE, In the 4th century the word "Afghans/Afghana" (αβγανανο) as reference to a particular people is mentioned in the Bactrian documents found in Northern Afghanistan. The word 'Afghan' is of Persian origin to refer to the Pashtun people. In the past, several scholars sought a connection with "horse", Skt.aśva-, Av.aspa-, i.e.the Aśvaka or Aśvakayana the name of the Aśvakan or Assakan, ancient inhabitants of the Hindu Kush region, however according to some linguists, it would be extremely difficult to reconcile either Aśvaka or Aśvakayana with the world Afghan. As an adjective, the word Afghan also means "of or relating to Afghanistan or its people, language or culture". According to the 1964 Constitution of Afghanistan, all Afghans citizens are equal in rights and obligations before the law. The fourth article of the Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan which was valid until 2021 states that citizens of Afghanistan consist of Pashtun, Tajik, Hazara, Uzbek, Turkmen, Baloch, Pashayi, Nuristani, Aimaq, Arab, Kyrgyz, Qizilbash, Gurjar, Brahui, and members of other ethnicities. There are political disputes regarding this: there are members of the non-Pashtun ethnicities of Afghanistan that reject the term Afghan being applied to them, and there are Pashtuns in Pakistan that wish to have the term Afghan applied to them. the pre-nation state, historical ethnonym Afghan was used to refer to a member of the Pashtun ethnic group. Due to the changing political nature of the state, such as the British-drawn border with Pakistan (then British India) the meaning has changed, and term has shifted to be the national identity of people from Afghanistan from all ethnicities. Afghanistani and Afghanese Less commonly Afghanistani (افغانستانی) is an alternative identity marker for citizens of the country Afghanistan. The term "Afghanistani" refers to someone who possesses the nationality of Afghanistan, regardless of what race, ethnic, religious background. In multiethnic Afghanistan, the term "Afghan" has always been associated with Pashtun people. Some non-Pashtun citizens such as Tajiks, Hazaras, and Uzbeks have viewed it as a part of Pashtun hegemony that devised to erase their ethnic identity. The term Afghanistani has been used among some refugees and diasporas, particularly among non-Pashtuns. History Afghanistan has never been or dawlat-e milli. \ The local groups and communities across Afghanistan have rather strong local and regional identification as a tribes or ethnic groups (Pashtun, Tajik, Hazara, Uzbek or others). For the past two centuries, Afghanistan rulers have tried to create a state that represents Pashtuns. Early efforts were made to create a strong centralized government based on a national identity of "Afghan," which privileged Pashtuns beyond their ethnic boundaries at state level as a whole. Non-Pashtun ethnic groups were not yet ready to accept a centralized state system let alone accepting a new national identity. They did not have overall or even wider identification with Afghanistan as a whole, not to mention national identity or citizenship that was not given to them by the central government. Etymology From a more limited, ethnological point of view, "Afḡhān" is the term by which the Persian-speakers of Afghanistan (and the non-Pashtō-speaking ethnic groups generally) designate the Pashtūn. The equation Afghans = Pashtūn has been propagated all the more, both in and beyond Afghanistan, because the Pashtūn tribal confederation has maintained its hegemony in the country, numerically and politically. National Identity Afghanistan's early efforts to create a sort of national identity began in 1919, after receiving its independence from the British Empire. This was the time when Afghanistan completely regain control over its sovereignty. Especially, the Hazara people who are still considered second-class citizens. After the fall of monarchy in 1973, Mohammed Daoud Khan, a staunch partisan of Pashtunistan, who saw the country not as Afghanistan but a Pashtunistan, a land uniting Pashtuns from NWFP and FATA with Afghanistan. Despite implementing some social and educational progress, he failed to create a national identity. After the Saur Revolution, the central governments tried to advocate for a broader Afghan identity through the use of modern education, but their efforts met with limited success. One of the most common hurdles for fostering a common national identity was the fact they ethnic groups such as Hazara, Uzbeks, or Tajiks could not identify with elements of an identity that had strong base in Pashtun ethnicity that ruled the country. Other identifiers: Afghani and Afghanese The term Afghani refers to the unit of Afghan currency. The term is also often used in the English language (and appears in some dictionaries) for a person or thing related to Afghanistan, although some have expressed the opinion that this usage is incorrect. A reason for this usage can be because the term "Afghani" (افغانی) is in fact a valid demonym for Afghans in the overall Persian language and in Hindustani, whereas "Afghan" is derived from Pashto. Thus "Afghan" is the anglicized term of "Afghani" when translating from Dari or Hindi-Urdu, but not Pashto. Another variant is Afghanese, which has been seldom used in place of Afghan. Ethnicities Afghans come from various ethnic backgrounds. Pashtuns form a plurality of the population, while Tajiks, Hazaras and Uzbeks are the next largest and altogether the four form almost 95% of the population. They are of diverse origins including of Iranian, Turkic and Mongol ethnolinguistic roots. Religions The Afghan people of all ethnicities are predominantly and traditionally followers of Islam, of whom most are of the Sunni branch. Other religious minorities include the Afghan Hindus, Afghan Sikhs, Afghan Zoroastrians, Afghan Jews and Afghan Christians. Culture Afghan culture has existed for over three millennia, dating back to the time of the Achaemenid Empire in 500 BCE. Afghans have both common cultural features and those that differ between regions with each of the 34 provinces having its own unique distinctive cultures partly as a result of geographic obstacles that divide the country. Afghanistan's culture is historically linked to nearby Persia, including both countries following the Islamic religion, the Solar Hijri calendar and speaking similar languages, this is due to Iran and Afghanistan being culturally close to each other for thousands of years. See also Demographics of Afghanistan Afghan (ethnonym) Name of Afghanistan Afghan diaspora Pashtuns Durand Line References Further reading External links Afghan News Exonyms
The Cobble Hill Tunnel (also known as the Atlantic Avenue Tunnel) is an abandoned Long Island Rail Road (LIRR) tunnel beneath Atlantic Avenue in Brooklyn, New York City, running through the neighborhoods of Downtown Brooklyn and Cobble Hill. When open, it ran for about between Columbia Street and Boerum Place. It is the oldest railway tunnel beneath a city street in North America that was fully devoted to rail. It is also deemed the oldest subway tunnel in the world by the Guinness Book of World Records. Construction and operation Originally built as an open cut, construction began in May 1844, and opened for use on December 3, 1844, but was not completely finished until mid-1845. It was built mainly to satisfy public demand for creation of a grade-separated right of way for the Brooklyn and Jamaica Railroad (later Long Island Rail Road) on its way to the South Ferry at the foot of Atlantic Street (later Atlantic Avenue), where passengers could catch ferries to Manhattan. The construction of the cut also lowered the LIRR's grade through Cobble Hill. Around five years after opening the cut was roofed over, converting it into a tunnel. As originally built, the cut was wide and long. Once roofed over, the interior height of the newly created tunnel was . In exchange for building the cut, the City of Brooklyn granted the B&J permission to operate its steam locomotives on Atlantic Street west of Fifth Avenue (then Parmentier's Garden/Gowanus Lane), all the way to Brooklyn's South Ferry (the present location of Brooklyn's Pier 7). Prior to the cut being built, the LIRR's western terminus was Atlantic Street at Clinton Street. Train cars were hauled by teams of horses along Atlantic Street from Clinton Street to Parmentier's Garden, where steam locomotives were attached. While the cut was being built, the railroad operated to a temporary terminal at Pacific Street and Henry Street. The Cobble Hill Tunnel was part of the first rail link between New York City and Boston, Massachusetts. The railroad connected Lower Manhattan via the South Ferry to Greenport on the North Fork of Long Island, where a ferry connected to Stonington, Connecticut, where a rail link continued to Boston. This avoided some difficult construction of bridges over the rivers of southern Connecticut. In 1848, the New York and New Haven Railroad Line was completed through Connecticut, providing a direct, faster rail connection from New York City to Boston. The Cobble Hill Tunnel and the Long Island Railroad remained the primary means of access to most of central Long Island from Manhattan and New York City. The ends of the tunnel were sealed in the fall of 1861. The similar Murray Hill Tunnel on the New York and Harlem Railroad was built as an open cut around 1836, roofed over around the 1850s, and is now in use for automobile traffic. Closure controversy In 1861, the New York State Legislature voted to ban railroad locomotives from within the limits of the City of Brooklyn. A tax assessment was ordered on all property owners along Atlantic Street (today Atlantic Avenue), to defray the costs of the closure. It was undisclosed at the time that New York State Governor John A. King was a major shareholder in the Brooklyn and Jamaica Railroad (later the Long Island Rail Road) and therefore had a conflict of interest and stood to benefit by the compensation payments to the railroad from the tax assessment. Dormancy Walt Whitman wrote of the tunnel: The old tunnel, that used to lie there under ground, a passage of Acheron-like solemnity and darkness, now all closed and filled up, and soon to be utterly forgotten, with all its reminiscences; however, there will, for a few years yet be many dear ones, to not a few Brooklynites, New Yorkers, and promiscuous crowds besides. For it was here you started to go down the island, in summer. For years, it was confidently counted on that this spot, and the railroad of which it was the terminus, were going to prove the permanent seat of business and wealth that belong to such enterprises. But its glory, after enduring in great splendor for a season, has now vanished—at least its Long Island Railroad glory has. The tunnel: dark as the grave, cold, damp, and silent. How beautiful look earth and heaven again, as we emerge from the gloom! It might not be unprofitable, now and then, to send us mortals—the dissatisfied ones, at least, and that's a large proportion—into some tunnel of several days' journey. We'd perhaps grumble less, afterward, at God's handiwork. In March 1916, the Bureau of Investigation suspected German terrorists were making bombs in the tunnel, and broke through the roof of the tunnel with jackhammers. They found nothing, installed an electric light, and resealed it. In the 1920s, it was rumored to be used for both mushroom growing and bootleg whiskey stills, even though there was no access into the main portion of the tunnel. It became an object of local folklore and legend. In 1936, the New York City Police Department unsuccessfully attempted to enter the tunnel, in order to look for the body of a hoodlum supposedly buried there. In 1941, it was rumored to have been inspected by the federal Works Progress Administration to determine its structural strength, but there is no evidence of this. A few years later, it was once again rumored to have been opened, this time by the FBI, in an unsuccessful search for spies; however, there is no evidence of this. During the late 1950s, it was sought by two rail historians, George Horn and Martin Schachne, but they did not gain access to the tunnel itself. Rediscovery Having fallen from public notice, the tunnel was rediscovered in 1980 by then 20-year-old Robert Diamond, who entered from a manhole he located at Atlantic Avenue and Court Street, crawled a distance of underground through a filled-in section of tunnel less than two feet high, and located the bulkhead wall that sealed off the main portion of the tunnel. With the assistance of a Brooklyn Union Gas Co. (now National Grid) engineering crew, he then broke through the massive concrete bulkhead wall, which is several feet thick. Diamond thereby opened access to the main portion of the tunnel, and began to popularize the tunnel as an antiquity. He led tours of its interior from 1982 until December 17, 2010, when the Department of Transportation terminated his contract, citing safety concerns. The tunnel has been listed on the National Register of Historic Places since 1989. The History Channel series Cities of the Underworld ran a segment ("New York's Secret Societies") on the tunnel in Fall 2008. See also Beach Pneumatic Transit Brooklyn Historic Railway Association Park Avenue main line, another railroad line in New York City that may have contained the oldest rail tunnels in the U.S. Track 61 (New York City) National Register of Historic Places listings in Kings County, New York References Notes Citations Further reading The Atlantic Avenue Tunnel (Arrt's Arrchives) Transportation buildings and structures in Brooklyn Long Island Rail Road Railway tunnels on the National Register of Historic Places Railroad tunnels in New York City History of transportation in New York City National Register of Historic Places in New York City Historic districts on the National Register of Historic Places in New York (state) Tunnels completed in 1844 Cobble Hill, Brooklyn National Register of Historic Places in Brooklyn Proposed buildings and structures in New York City Railway buildings and structures on the National Register of Historic Places in New York City 1844 establishments in New York (state)
The Annapolis Valley is a valley and region in the province of Nova Scotia, Canada. It is located in the western part of the Nova Scotia peninsula, formed by a trough between two parallel mountain ranges along the shore of the Bay of Fundy. Statistics Canada defines the Annapolis Valley as an economic region, composed of Annapolis County, Kings County, and Hants County. Geography The valley measures approximately in length from Digby and the Annapolis Basin in the west to Wolfville and the Minas Basin in the east, spanning the counties of Digby, Annapolis and Kings. Some also include the western part of Hants County, including the towns of Hantsport and Windsor even further to the east, but geographically speaking they are part of the Avon River valley. The steep face of basaltic North Mountain shelters the valley from the adjacent Bay of Fundy and rises over in elevation near Lawrencetown. The granitic South Mountain rises to a somewhat higher elevation and shelters the valley from the climate of the Atlantic Ocean approximately 100 kilometres further south on the province's South Shore. The shelter provided by these two mountainous ridges has produced a microclimate which provides relatively mild temperatures for the region and, coupled with the fertile glacial sedimentary soils on the valley floor, the region is conducive to growing vegetable and fruit crops. Particularly famous for its apple crop, the valley hosts in excess of 1,000 farms of various types, the majority being relatively small family-owned operations. Within the valley itself are two major rivers, the Annapolis River which flows west from Caribou Bog in the central part of the valley into Annapolis Basin, and the Cornwallis River which flows east from Caribou Bog into Minas Basin. The North Mountain ridge forms the north side of the Annapolis Valley. Also flowing east, in two smaller valleys north of the Cornwallis River, are the Canard River and the Habitant River, both of which also flow into the Minas Basin. History Long settled by the Mi'kmaq nation, the valley experienced French settlement at the Habitation at Port-Royal, near modern-day Annapolis Royal in the western part of the valley, beginning in 1605. From there, the Acadians spread throughout the Valley, in various communities, building dykes to claim the tidal lands along the Annapolis and Cornwallis Rivers. They continued throughout the Annapolis Valley until the British-ordered expulsion of Acadians in 1755 which is memorialized at Grand-Pré in the eastern part of the valley. New England Planters moved in to occupy the abandoned Acadian farming areas and the region also saw subsequent settlement by Loyalist refugees of the American Revolutionary War, as well as foreign Protestants. These were followed by significant numbers of freed Africans in the War of 1812, Irish immigrants in the mid-19th century and Dutch immigrants after World War II. Agriculture in the Annapolis valley boomed in the late 19th century with the arrival of the Windsor and Annapolis Railway, later the Dominion Atlantic Railway, which developed large export markets for Annapolis Valley apples. The Annapolis Valley Regional Library was established in 1949. It was the first regional library system in Nova Scotia. Economy The Valley has traditionally been built on a diversified agricultural industry, with a wide range of output ranging from livestock to fruit trees and berries. The last quarter-century has also seen the development of a wine industry, with such notable wineries as Gaspereau Vineyards winning national and international awards for their produce. Today, the Valley is still largely dominated by agriculture but also has a growing diversity in its economies, partly aided by the importance of post-secondary education centres provided by Acadia University in Wolfville, and the Nova Scotia Community College campuses located in Kentville, Middleton, Lawrencetown, and Digby. Michelin has an important truck tire manufacturing plant in Waterville and the Department of National Defence has its largest air force base in Atlantic Canada located at CFB Greenwood along with an important training facility at Camp Aldershot, near Kentville. Tourism is also an important industry and the Annapolis Valley is known for its scenic farmland, although today some is threatened with suburban development in the eastern end, and a great deal has been abandoned. The valley also struggles with pollution from farm runoffs and residential sewers in its two major rivers, the Annapolis River and the Cornwallis River. The Annapolis Valley additionally has become home to the majority of Nova Scotia wineries, located in either the Gaspereau Valley or in the Canning, Grand Pré, or Bear River areas. The Valley is home to the annual Apple Blossom Festival, held in late spring. In July is the annual Steer Bar-B-Que in Kingston, and Heart of the Valley Festival in Middleton. August sees Mud Creek Days in Wolfville and the Annapolis Valley Exhibition in Lawrencetown. Bridgetown's Cider Festival comes in mid-September. The Canadian Deep Roots Music Festival is held each year at the end of September in Wolfville, a community-based festival, supported by both the Town of Wolfville and Acadia University and built by over 100 volunteers, and on in-kind and financial support from virtually all sectors of the Valley community. Late October sees Wolfville and Kings County play host to Devour! The Food Film Fest, an annual international film festival celebrating all things culinary. Farmers markets in Annapolis Royal, Bridgetown, Middleton, Kentville, Kingsport, Berwick and Wolfville bring a produce and other goods to the public every week. In the fall, there is the Pumpkin People in Kentville. Communities Communities in the Valley from west to east include: Digby Cornwallis Annapolis Royal Bridgetown Lawrencetown Middleton Greenwood Kingston Auburn Aylesford Berwick Waterville Cambridge Coldbrook Kentville New Minas Canning Wolfville Grand-Pré Glooscap Hantsport Mount Denson Falmouth Windsor References External links Annapolis Valley Tourism Valleys of Nova Scotia Wine regions of Canada Geographic regions of Nova Scotia Cuisine of Nova Scotia Alcohol in Nova Scotia
Titus ( ; ; Títos) was an early Christian missionary and church leader, a companion and disciple of Paul the Apostle, mentioned in several of the Pauline epistles including the Epistle to Titus. He is believed to be a Gentile converted to Christianity by Paul and, according to tradition, he was consecrated as Bishop of the Island of Crete. Titus brought a fundraising letter from Paul to Corinth, to collect for the poor in Jerusalem. According to Jerome, Titus was the amanuensis of this epistle (2 Corinthians). Later, on Crete, Titus appointed presbyters (elders) in every city and remained there into his old age, dying in Gortyna, near the city of Candia (modern Heraklion). Life Titus was a Greek, apparently from Crete who is said to have studied Greek philosophy and poetry in his early years. He seems to have been converted by Paul, whereupon he served as Paul's secretary and interpreter. In the year 49, Titus accompanied Paul to the council held at Jerusalem, on the subject of the Mosaic rites. Towards the close of the year 56, Paul, as he himself departed from Asia, sent Titus from Ephesus to Corinth, with full commission to remedy the fallout precipitated by Timothy's delivery of 1 Corinthians and Paul's "Painful Visit", particularly a significant personal offense and challenge to Paul's authority by one unnamed individual. During this journey, Titus served as the courier for what is commonly known as the "Severe Letter", a Pauline missive that has been lost but is referred to in 2 Corinthians. After success on this mission, Titus journeyed north and met Paul in Macedonia. There the apostle, overjoyed by Titus' success, wrote 2 Corinthians. Titus then returned to Corinth with a larger entourage, carrying 2 Corinthians with him. Paul joined Titus in Corinth later. From Corinth, Paul then sent Titus to organize the collections of alms for the Christians at Jerusalem. Titus was therefore a troubleshooter, peacemaker, administrator, and missionary. Early church tradition holds that Paul, after his release from his first imprisonment in Rome, stopped at the island of Crete to preach. Due to the needs of other churches, requiring his presence elsewhere, he ordained his disciple Titus as bishop of that island, and left him to finish the work he had started. Chrysostom says that this is an indication of the esteem Paul held for Titus. Paul summoned Titus from Crete to join him at Nicopolis in Epirus. Later, Titus traveled to Dalmatia. The New Testament does not record his death. It has been argued that the name "Titus" in 2 Corinthians and Galatians is nothing more than an informal name used by Timothy, implied already by the fact that even though both are said to be long-term close companions of Paul, they never appear in common scenes. The theory proposes that a number of passages—1 Cor. 4:17, 16.10; 2 Cor. 2:13, 7:6, 13–14, 12:18; and Acts 19.22—all refer to the same journey of a single individual, Titus-Timothy. 2 Timothy seems to dispute this, by claiming that Titus has gone to Dalmatia. The fact that Paul made a point of circumcising Timothy but refused to circumcise Titus would indicate that they are different men, although certain manuscripts of Galatians have been taken (by Marius Victorinus, for example) to indicate that Paul did circumcise Titus. Veneration The feast day of Titus was not included in the Tridentine Calendar. When added in 1854, it was assigned to 6 February. In 1969, the Catholic Church assigned the feast to 26 January so as to celebrate the two disciples of Paul, Titus and Timothy, the day after the feast of the Conversion of St. Paul. The Evangelical Lutheran Church in America celebrates these two, together with Silas, on the same date while he is honored on the calendars of the Church of England and Episcopal Church (with Timothy) on 26 January. The Eastern Orthodox Church commemorates Titus on 25 August and on 4 January. His relics, now consisting of only his skull, are venerated in the Church of St. Titus, Heraklion, Crete, to which it was returned in 1966 after being removed to Venice during the Turkish occupation. Titus is the patron saint of the United States Army Chaplain Corps. The Corps has established the Order of Titus Award, described by the Department of Defense: References See also Epistle of Pseudo-Titus Seventy disciples 1st-century births 107 deaths People in the Pauline epistles 1st-century bishops in the Roman Empire Christian saints from the New Testament Saints of Roman Crete Military saints Anglican saints
Anton (or Antonio) Diabelli (5 September 17818 April 1858) was an Austrian music publisher, editor and composer. Best known in his time as a publisher, he is most familiar today as the composer of the waltz on which Ludwig van Beethoven wrote his set of thirty-three Diabelli Variations. Early life Diabelli was born in Mattsee near Salzburg, then in the Archbishopric of Salzburg. A musical child, he sang in the boys' choir at Salzburg Cathedral where he is believed to have taken music lessons with Michael Haydn. By the age of 19 Diabelli had already composed several important compositions including six masses. Diabelli was trained to enter the priesthood and in 1800 joined the monastery at Raitenhaslach, Bavaria. He remained there until 1803, when Bavaria closed all its monasteries. Career In 1803 Diabelli moved to Vienna and began teaching piano and guitar and found work as a proofreader for a music publisher. During this period he learned the music publishing business while continuing to compose. In 1809 he composed his comic opera, Adam in der Klemme. In 1817 he started a music publishing business and in 1818 he formed a partnership with Pietro Cappi to create the music publishing firm of Cappi & Diabelli. Cappi & Diabelli became well known by arranging popular pieces so they could be played by amateurs at home. A master of promotion, Diabelli selected widely-accessible music such as famous opera tune arrangements, dance music and popular new comic theatre songs. The firm soon established a reputation in more serious music circles by championing the works of Franz Schubert. Diabelli recognized the composer's potential and became the first to publish Schubert's work with "Erlkönig" in 1821. Diabelli's firm continued to publish Schubert's work until 1823 when an argument between Cappi and Schubert terminated their business. The following year Diabelli and Cappi parted ways, Diabelli launching a new publishing house, Diabelli & Co., in 1824. Following Schubert's early death in 1828 Diabelli purchased a large portion of the composer's massive musical estate from Schubert's brother Ferdinand. As Schubert had hundreds of unpublished works, Diabelli's firm was able to publish "new" Schubert works for more than 30 years after the composer's death. Diabelli's publishing house expanded throughout his life, before he retired in 1851, leaving it under the control of Carl Anton Spina. When Diabelli died in 1858 Spina changed the firm’s name to “C.A. Spina Vormals Diabelli” and published much music by Johann Strauss II and Josef Strauss. In 1872 the firm was taken over by Friedrich Schreiber and in 1876 it merged with the firm of August Cranz who bought the company in 1879 and ran it under his name. Diabelli died in Vienna at the age of 76. Compositions Diabelli composed a number of well-known Classical works, including an operetta called Adam in der Klemme, several masses, songs and numerous piano and classical guitar pieces. Numerically his guitar pieces form the largest part of his works. His pieces for piano four hands are popular. Diabelli's composition Pleasures of Youth: Six Sonatinas is a collection of six sonatinas depicting a struggle between unknown opposing forces. This is suggested by the sharp and frequent change in dynamics from forte to piano. When forte is indicated the pianist is meant to evoke a sense of wickedness, thus depicting the antagonist. In contrast the markings of piano represent the protagonist. Diabelli Variations The composition for which Diabelli is now best known was actually written as part of an adventuring story. In 1819, as a promotional idea, he decided to try to publish a volume of variations on a "patriotic" waltz he had penned expressly for this purpose, with one variation by every important Austrian composer living at the time, as well as several significant non-Austrians. The combined contributions would be published in an anthology called Vaterländischer Künstlerverein. Fifty-one composers responded with pieces, including Beethoven, Schubert, Archduke Rudolph of Austria, Franz Xaver Wolfgang Mozart (jun.), Moritz, Prince of Dietrichstein, Heinrich Eduard Josef Baron von Lannoy, Ignaz Franz Baron von Mosel, Carl Czerny, Johann Nepomuk Hummel, Ignaz Moscheles, Simon Sechter, and the eight-year-old Franz Liszt (although it seems Liszt was not invited personally, but his teacher Czerny arranged for him to be involved). Czerny was also enlisted to write a coda. Beethoven, however, instead of providing just one variation, provided 33, and his formed Part I of Vaterländischer Künstlerverein. They constitute what is generally regarded as one of the greatest of Beethoven's piano pieces and as the greatest set of variations of their time, and are generally known simply as the Diabelli Variations, Op. 120. The other 50 variations were published as Part II of Vaterländischer Künstlerverein. Cultural references A sonatina of Diabelli's, presumably Sonatina in F major, Op. 168, No. 1 (I: Moderato cantabile), provides the title and a motif for the French novella Moderato Cantabile by Marguerite Duras. See also Romantic guitar References Published music and further reading Anton Diabelli's guitar works – a thematic catalogue with an introduction; Doctoral Thesis by Jukka Savijoki (Sibelius Academy; 1996) Anton Diabelli's Guitar Works: A Thematic Catalogue by Jukka Savijoki (Editions Orphée) Rischel & Birket-Smith's Collection of guitar music Det Kongelige Bibliotek, Denmark Boije Collection The Music Library of Sweden www.karadar.com/Dictionary/diabelli.html Free scores at the Mutopia Project External links 1781 births 1858 deaths 19th-century classical composers 19th-century male musicians Austrian male classical composers Austrian opera composers Austrian people of Italian descent Austrian Romantic composers Composers for piano Composers for the classical guitar Male opera composers Sheet music publishers (people) People from Salzburg-Umgebung District
An audio file format is a file format for storing digital audio data on a computer system. The bit layout of the audio data (excluding metadata) is called the audio coding format and can be uncompressed, or compressed to reduce the file size, often using lossy compression. The data can be a raw bitstream in an audio coding format, but it is usually embedded in a container format or an audio data format with defined storage layer. Format types It is important to distinguish between the audio coding format, the container containing the raw audio data, and an audio codec. A codec performs the encoding and decoding of the raw audio data while this encoded data is (usually) stored in a container file. Although most audio file formats support only one type of audio coding data (created with an audio coder), a multimedia container format (as Matroska or AVI) may support multiple types of audio and video data. There are three major groups of audio file formats: Uncompressed audio formats, such as WAV, AIFF, AU or raw header-less PCM; Formats with lossless compression, such as FLAC, Monkey's Audio (filename extension .ape), WavPack (filename extension .wv), TTA, ATRAC Advanced Lossless, ALAC (filename extension .m4a), MPEG-4 SLS, MPEG-4 ALS, MPEG-4 DST, Windows Media Audio Lossless (WMA Lossless), and Shorten (SHN). Formats with lossy compression, such as Opus, MP3, Vorbis, Musepack, AAC, ATRAC and Windows Media Audio Lossy (WMA lossy). Uncompressed audio format One major uncompressed audio format, LPCM, is the same variety of PCM as used in Compact Disc Digital Audio and is the format most commonly accepted by low level audio APIs and D/A converter hardware. Although LPCM can be stored on a computer as a raw audio format, it is usually stored in a .wav file on Windows or in a .aiff file on macOS. The Audio Interchange File Format (AIFF) format is based on the Interchange File Format (IFF), and the WAV format is based on the similar Resource Interchange File Format (RIFF). WAV and AIFF are designed to store a wide variety of audio formats, lossless and lossy; they just add a small, metadata-containing header before the audio data to declare the format of the audio data, such as LPCM with a particular sample rate, bit depth, endianness and number of channels. Since WAV and AIFF are widely supported and can store LPCM, they are suitable file formats for storing and archiving an original recording. BWF (Broadcast Wave Format) is a standard audio format created by the European Broadcasting Union as a successor to WAV. Among other enhancements, BWF allows more robust metadata to be stored in the file. See European Broadcasting Union: Specification of the Broadcast Wave Format (EBU Technical document 3285, July 1997). This is the primary recording format used in many professional audio workstations in the television and film industry. BWF files include a standardized timestamp reference which allows for easy synchronization with a separate picture element. Stand-alone, file based, multi-track recorders from AETA, Sound Devices, Zaxcom, HHB Communications Ltd, Fostex, Nagra, Aaton, and TASCAM all use BWF as their preferred format. Lossless compressed audio format A lossless compressed audio format stores data in less space without losing any information. The original, uncompressed data can be recreated from the compressed version. Uncompressed audio formats encode both sound and silence with the same number of bits per unit of time. Encoding an uncompressed minute of absolute silence produces a file of the same size as encoding an uncompressed minute of music. In a lossless compressed format, however, the music would occupy a smaller file than an uncompressed format and the silence would take up almost no space at all. Lossless compression formats include FLAC, WavPack, Monkey's Audio, ALAC (Apple Lossless). They provide a compression ratio of about 2:1 (i.e. their files take up half the space of PCM). Development in lossless compression formats aims to reduce processing time while maintaining a good compression ratio. Lossy compressed audio format Lossy audio format enables even greater reductions in file size by removing some of the audio information and simplifying the data. This, of course, results in a reduction in audio quality, but a variety of techniques are used, mainly by exploiting psychoacoustics, to remove the parts of the sound that have the least effect on perceived quality, and to minimize the amount of audible noise added during the process. The popular MP3 format is probably the best-known example, but the AAC format found on the iTunes Music Store is also common. Most formats offer a range of degrees of compression, generally measured in bit rate. The lower the rate, the smaller the file and the more significant the quality loss. List of formats See also Video file format Audio compression (data) Comparison of audio coding formats Comparison of video container formats Comparison of video codecs List of open-source audio codecs Timeline of audio formats References Digital container formats
Audio signal processing is a subfield of signal processing that is concerned with the electronic manipulation of audio signals. Audio signals are electronic representations of sound waves—longitudinal waves which travel through air, consisting of compressions and rarefactions. The energy contained in audio signals or sound power level is typically measured in decibels. As audio signals may be represented in either digital or analog format, processing may occur in either domain. Analog processors operate directly on the electrical signal, while digital processors operate mathematically on its digital representation. History The motivation for audio signal processing began at the beginning of the 20th century with inventions like the telephone, phonograph, and radio that allowed for the transmission and storage of audio signals. Audio processing was necessary for early radio broadcasting, as there were many problems with studio-to-transmitter links. The theory of signal processing and its application to audio was largely developed at Bell Labs in the mid 20th century. Claude Shannon and Harry Nyquist's early work on communication theory, sampling theory and pulse-code modulation (PCM) laid the foundations for the field. In 1957, Max Mathews became the first person to synthesize audio from a computer, giving birth to computer music. Major developments in digital audio coding and audio data compression include differential pulse-code modulation (DPCM) by C. Chapin Cutler at Bell Labs in 1950, linear predictive coding (LPC) by Fumitada Itakura (Nagoya University) and Shuzo Saito (Nippon Telegraph and Telephone) in 1966, adaptive DPCM (ADPCM) by P. Cummiskey, Nikil S. Jayant and James L. Flanagan at Bell Labs in 1973, discrete cosine transform (DCT) coding by Nasir Ahmed, T. Natarajan and K. R. Rao in 1974, and modified discrete cosine transform (MDCT) coding by J. P. Princen, A. W. Johnson and A. B. Bradley at the University of Surrey in 1987. LPC is the basis for perceptual coding and is widely used in speech coding, while MDCT coding is widely used in modern audio coding formats such as MP3 and Advanced Audio Coding (AAC). Types Analog An analog audio signal is a continuous signal represented by an electrical voltage or current that is analogous to the sound waves in the air. Analog signal processing then involves physically altering the continuous signal by changing the voltage or current or charge via electrical circuits. Historically, before the advent of widespread digital technology, analog was the only method by which to manipulate a signal. Since that time, as computers and software have become more capable and affordable, digital signal processing has become the method of choice. However, in music applications, analog technology is often still desirable as it often produces nonlinear responses that are difficult to replicate with digital filters. Digital A digital representation expresses the audio waveform as a sequence of symbols, usually binary numbers. This permits signal processing using digital circuits such as digital signal processors, microprocessors and general-purpose computers. Most modern audio systems use a digital approach as the techniques of digital signal processing are much more powerful and efficient than analog domain signal processing. Applications Processing methods and application areas include storage, data compression, music information retrieval, speech processing, localization, acoustic detection, transmission, noise cancellation, acoustic fingerprinting, sound recognition, synthesis, and enhancement (e.g. equalization, filtering, level compression, echo and reverb removal or addition, etc.). Audio broadcasting Audio signal processing is used when broadcasting audio signals in order to enhance their fidelity or optimize for bandwidth or latency. In this domain, the most important audio processing takes place just before the transmitter. The audio processor here must prevent or minimize overmodulation, compensate for non-linear transmitters (a potential issue with medium wave and shortwave broadcasting), and adjust overall loudness to the desired level. Active noise control Active noise control is a technique designed to reduce unwanted sound. By creating a signal that is identical to the unwanted noise but with the opposite polarity, the two signals cancel out due to destructive interference. Audio synthesis Audio synthesis is the electronic generation of audio signals. A musical instrument that accomplishes this is called a synthesizer. Synthesizers can either imitate sounds or generate new ones. Audio synthesis is also used to generate human speech using speech synthesis. Audio effects Audio effects alter the sound of a musical instrument or other audio source. Common effects include distortion, often used with electric guitar in electric blues and rock music; dynamic effects such as volume pedals and compressors, which affect loudness; filters such as wah-wah pedals and graphic equalizers, which modify frequency ranges; modulation effects, such as chorus, flangers and phasers; pitch effects such as pitch shifters; and time effects, such as reverb and delay, which create echoing sounds and emulate the sound of different spaces. Musicians, audio engineers and record producers use effects units during live performances or in the studio, typically with electric guitar, bass guitar, electronic keyboard or electric piano. While effects are most frequently used with electric or electronic instruments, they can be used with any audio source, such as acoustic instruments, drums, and vocals. Computer audition See also Sound card Sound effect References Further reading Audio electronics Signal processing
Alfonso Leng Haygus (11 February 1884 – 11 November 1974) was a post-romantic composer of classical music. He was born in Santiago, Chile. He wrote the first important symphonic work in Chilean tradition, "La Muerte de Alcino", a symphonic poem inspired by the novel of Pedro Prado. He composed many art songs in different languages and important piano pieces, like the five "Doloras" (1914), which he later orchestrated and are normally played in concerts in Chile and Latin America. He won the National Art Prize in 1957. Leng was also an accomplished dentist in Santiago. As a dentist, he was the main founder of the dentistry faculty of the University of Chile, and he was eventually elected as the first dean. Leng was the nephew of composer Carmela Mackenna. References 1884 births 1974 deaths Chilean classical composers Chilean male composers Chilean dentists Musicians from Santiago Academic staff of the University of Chile Chilean people of Chinese descent 20th-century Chilean musicians 20th-century classical composers 20th-century male musicians Male classical composers 20th-century dentists 20th-century Chilean male artists
In optics and lens design, the Abbe number, also known as the V-number or constringence of a transparent material, is an approximate measure of the material's dispersion (change of refractive index versus wavelength), with high values of V indicating low dispersion. It is named after Ernst Abbe (1840–1905), the German physicist who defined it. The term V-number should not be confused with the normalized frequency in fibers. The Abbe number, of a material is defined as where and are the refractive indices of the material at the wavelengths of the Fraunhofer's C, d, and F spectral lines (656.3 nm, 587.56 nm, and 486.1 nm respectively). This formulation only applies to the human vision. Outside this range requires the use of different spectral lines. For non-visible spectral lines the term "V-number" is more commonly used. The more general formulation defined as, where and are the refractive indices of the material at three different wavelengths. The shortest wavelength's index is and the longest's is Abbe numbers are used to classify glass and other optical materials in terms of their chromaticity. For example, the higher dispersion flint glasses have relatively small Abbe numbers whereas the lower dispersion crown glasses have larger Abbe numbers. Values of range from below 25 for very dense flint glasses, around 34 for polycarbonate plastics, up to 65 for common crown glasses, and 75 to 85 for some fluorite and phosphate crown glasses. Abbe numbers are used in the design of achromatic lenses, as their reciprocal is proportional to dispersion (slope of refractive index versus wavelength) in the wavelength region where the human eye is most sensitive (see graph). For different wavelength regions, or for higher precision in characterizing a system's chromaticity (such as in the design of apochromats), the full dispersion relation (refractive index as a function of wavelength) is used. Abbe diagram An Abbe diagram, also called 'the glass veil', is produced by plotting the Abbe number of a material versus its refractive index Glasses can then be categorised and selected according to their positions on the diagram. This can be a letter-number code, as used in the Schott Glass catalogue, or a 6 digit glass code. Glasses' Abbe numbers, along with their mean refractive indices, are used in the calculation of the required refractive powers of the elements of achromatic lenses in order to cancel chromatic aberration to first order. These two parameters which enter into the equations for design of achromatic doublets are exactly what is plotted on an Abbe diagram. Due to the difficulty and inconvenience in producing sodium and hydrogen lines, alternate definitions of the Abbe number are often substituted (ISO 7944). For example, rather than the standard definition given above, that uses the refractive index variation between the F and C hydrogen lines, one alternative measure using the subscript "e" for mercury's e line compared to cadmium's F′ and C′ lines is This alternate takes the difference between cadmium's blue (C′) and red (F′) refractive indices at wavelengths 480.0 nm and 643.8 nm, relative to for mercury's e line at 546.073 nm, all of which are close by, and somewhat easier to produce than the C, F, and e lines. Other definitions can similarly be employed; the following table lists standard wavelengths at which is commonly determined, including the standard subscripts used. Derivation Starting from the Lensmaker's equation we obtain the thin lens equation by dropping a small term that accounts for lens thickness, : when The change of refractive power between the two wavelengths and is given by where and are the short and long wavelengths' refractive indexes, respectively, and below, is for the center. The power difference can be expressed relative to the power at the center wavelength () by multiplying and dividing by and regrouping, get The relative change is inversely proportional to See also Abbe prism Abbe refractometer Calculation of glass properties, including Abbe number Glass code Sellmeier equation, more comprehensive and physically based modeling of dispersion References External links Abbe graph and data for 356 glasses from Ohara, Hoya, and Schott Dimensionless numbers Optical quantities Glass physics
ACN may refer to: Accenture, professional services company, listed on the NYSE as ACN Achang language, a Tibeto-Burman language of China Achnasheen railway station, UK, National Rail code Acineta, a genus of orchid ACN Inc., multi-level marketing company providing telecommunications and other services Action Congress of Nigeria, political party of Nigeria Africa Cup of Nations, biennial football tournament Hockey Africa Cup of Nations, biennial field hockey tournament Men's Hockey Africa Cup of Nations Women's Hockey Africa Cup of Nations Agencia Carabobeña de Noticias, news agency, Valencia, Venezuela Agència Catalana de Notícies, news agency, Barcelona, Spain Agenzia per la Cybersicurezza Nazionale, Italian cybersecurity agency, Rome, Italy Aid to the Church in Need, Catholic charity in Königstein im Taunus, Germany Aircraft Classification Number, pavement load of an aircraft Algebraic chess notation, the standard notation for recording chess games American Collectibles Network, former name for Jewelry Television, US Andean Community of Nations, free trade area Anglican Communion Network, network of Anglican and Episcopalian dioceses and parishes ante Christum natum, seldom-used Latin equivalent of BC Architecture for Control Networks, network protocol for theatrical control Atlantis Cable News, fictional news channel on The Newsroom (American TV series) Australian Company Number, unique identifier for companies registered in Australia Ciudad Acuña International Airport, an airport in Ciudad Acuña, Mexico Chemistry Acetonitrile, CH3CN Acrylonitrile, CH2CHCN
AD (Anno Domini) is a designation used to label years following 1 BC in the Julian and Gregorian calendars while Ad (advertisement) is a form of marketing communication. AD, A.D. or Ad may also refer to: Art, entertainment, and media Film and television A.D. (film), a 2010 animated zombie horror film A.D. (miniseries), a 1985 television miniseries set in ancient Rome A.D. The Bible Continues, a 2015 biblical drama television miniseries Arrested Development, an American television sitcom Attarintiki Daredi, 2013 Indian film by Trivikram Srinivas Audio description, a service for visually impaired audience on some TV programs Music AD (band), a Christian rock band A.D. (album), by Solace Publications A.D.: New Orleans After the Deluge, a nonfiction graphic novel about Hurricane Katrina Algemeen Dagblad, a Dutch newspaper Architectural Digest, an interior design and landscaping magazine AD (poem), by Kenneth Fearing Other art, entertainment, and media Audio description track, a narration track for visually impaired consumers of visual media Brands and enterprises Alexander Dennis, a British bus manufacturer Akcionersko društvo (aкционерско друштво), a Macedonian name for a type of company Aktsionerno drujestvo (акционерно дружество), a Bulgarian name for a type of company akcionarsko društvo (aкционарско друштво), a Serbian name for a type of company Analog Devices, a semiconductor company Military Accidental discharge, a mechanical failure of a firearm causing it to fire Active duty, a status of full duty or service, usually in the armed forces Air defense, anti-aircraft weaponry and systems Air Department, part of the British Admiralty Destroyer tender, a type of support ship (US Navy hull classification symbol AD) AD Skyraider, former name of the Douglas A-1 Skyraider, a Navy attack aircraft Organizations Action Directe, French far-left militant group Democratic Action (Venezuela) (Spanish: Acción Democrática), social democratic and center-left political party Democratic Alliance (Portugal) (Portuguese: Aliança Democrática), a former centre-right political alliance Democratic Alternative (Malta) (Maltese: Alternattiva Demokratika), a green political party People Ad (name), a given name, and a list of people with the name ‘Ad, great-grandson of Shem, son of Noah Anthony Davis (born 1993), American basketball player Antonio Davis (born 1968), American basketball player A. D. Loganathan (1888–1949), officer of the Indian National Army A. D. Whitfield (born 1943), American football player A. D. Winans (born 1936), American poet, essayist, short story writer and publisher A.D., nickname of Adrian Peterson (born 1985), American football player Places AD, ISO 3166-1 country for Andorra Abu Dhabi, capital of the United Arab Emirates AD, herbarium code for the State Herbarium of South Australia Professions Art director, for a magazine or newspaper Assistant director, a film or television crew member Athletic director, the administrator of an athletics program Science and technology Biology and medicine Addison's disease, an endocrine disorder Adenovirus, viruses of the family Adenoviridae Alzheimer's disease, a neurodegenerative disease Anaerobic digestion, processes by which microorganisms break down biodegradable material Anti-diarrheal, medication which provides symptomatic relief for diarrhea Approximate digestibility, an index measure of the digestibility of animal feed Atopic dermatitis, form of skin inflammation Atypical depression, a type of depression Autosomal dominant, a classification of genetic traits Autonomic dysreflexia, a potential medical emergency Chemistry Adamantyl, abbreviated "Ad" in organic chemistry Sharpless asymmetric dihydroxylation, a type of organic chemical reaction Computing .ad, the top level domain for Andorra Administrative distance, a metric in routing Active Directory, software for the management of Microsoft Windows domains Administrative domain, a computer networking facility Analog-to-digital converter, a type of electronic circuit Automatic differentiation, a set of computer programming techniques to speedily compute derivatives AD16, the hexadecimal number equal to decimal number 173 Mathematics Adjoint representation of a Lie group, abbreviated "Ad" in mathematics Axiom of determinacy, a set theory axiom Physics Antiproton Decelerator, a device at the CERN physics laboratory Autodynamics, a physics theory Other uses in science and technology Active disassembly, a technology supporting the cost-effective deconstruction of complex materials Transportation AD, IATA code for: Air Paradise, a defunct Indonesian airline Azul Brazilian Airlines Airworthiness Directive, an aircraft maintenance requirement notice Other uses ʿĀd, an ancient Arab tribe, mentioned in the Quran Aggregate demand, in macroeconomics Anno Diocletiani, an alternative year numbering system United States Academic Decathlon, a high school academic competition See also Anno Domini (disambiguation) BC (disambiguation) Domino (disambiguation) Dominus (disambiguation)
In grammar, the ablative case (pronounced ; sometimes abbreviated ) is a grammatical case for nouns, pronouns, and adjectives in the grammars of various languages; it is sometimes used to express motion away from something, among other uses. The word "ablative" derives from the Latin , the (irregular) perfect, passive participle of auferre "to carry away". The ablative case is found in several language families, such as Indo-European (e.g., Sanskrit, Latin, Albanian, Armenian), Turkic (e.g., Turkish, Turkmen, Azerbaijani, Uzbek, Kazakh, Kyrgyz, Tatar), Tungusic (e.g., Manchu, Evenki), Uralic (e.g., Hungarian), and the Dravidian languages. There is no ablative case in modern Germanic languages such as German and English. There was an ablative case in the early stages of Ancient Greek, but it quickly fell into disuse by the classical period. Indo-European languages Latin The ablative case in Latin (cāsus ablātīvus) appears in various grammatical constructions, including following various prepositions, in an ablative absolute clause, and adverbially. The Latin ablative case was derived from three Proto-Indo-European cases: ablative (from), instrumental (with), and locative (in/at). Greek In Ancient Greek, there was an ablative case ( ) which was used in the Homeric, pre-Mycenaean, and Mycenean periods. It fell into disuse during the classical period and thereafter with some of its functions taken by the genitive and others by the dative. The genitive case with the prepositions "away from" and "out of" is an example. German German does not have an ablative case but, exceptionally, Latin ablative case-forms were used from the seventeenth to the nineteenth century after some prepositions, for example after von in von dem Nomine: ablative of the Latin loanword Nomen. Grammarians at that time, Justus Georg Schottel, Kaspar von Stieler ("der Spate"), Johann Balthasar von Antesperg and Johann Christoph Gottsched, listed an ablative case (as the sixth case after nominative, genitive, dative, accusative and vocative) for German words. They arbitrarily considered the dative case after some prepositions to be an ablative, as in ("from the man" or "of the man") and ("with the man"), while they considered the dative case after other prepositions or without a preposition, as in , to be a dative. Albanian The ablative case is found in Albanian; it is the fifth case, rasa rrjedhore. Sanskrit In Sanskrit, the ablative case is the fifth case (pañcamī) and has a similar function to that in Latin. Sanskrit nouns in the ablative often refer to a subject "out of" which or "from" whom something (an action, an object) has arisen or occurred: pátram taróḥ pátati "the leaf falls from the tree". It is also used for nouns in several other senses, as for actions occurring "because of" or "without" a certain noun, indicating distance or direction. When it appears with a comparative adjective, (śreṣṭhatamam, "the best"), the ablative is used to refer to what the adjective is comparing: "better than X". Armenian The modern Armenian ablative has different markers for each main dialect, both originating from Classical Armenian. The Western Armenian affix -է -ē (definite -էն -ēn) derives from the classical singular; the Eastern Armenian affix -ից -ic’ (both indefinite and definite) derives from the classical plural. For both dialects, those affixes are singular, with the corresponding plurals being -(ն)երէ(ն) and -(ն)երից . The ablative case has several uses. Its principal function is to show "motion away" from a location, point in space or time: It also shows the agent when it is used with the passive voice of the verb: It is also used for comparative statements in colloquial Armenian (including infinitives and participles): Finally, it governs certain postpositions: Uralic languages Finnish In Finnish, the ablative case is the sixth of the locative cases with the meaning "from, off, of": pöytä – pöydältä "table – off from the table". It is an outer locative case, used like the adessive and allative cases, to denote both being on top of something and "being around the place" (as opposed to the inner locative case, the elative, which means "from out of" or "from the inside of"). With the locative, the receding object was near the other place or object, not inside it. The Finnish ablative is also used in time expressions to indicate times of something happening (kymmeneltä "at ten") as well as with verbs expressing feelings or emotions. The Finnish ablative has the ending -lta or -ltä, depending on vowel harmony. Usage away from a place katolta: off the roof pöydältä: off the table rannalta: from the beach maalta: from the land mereltä: from the sea from a person, object or other entity häneltä: from him/her/them with the verb lähteä (stop) lähteä tupakalta: stop smoking (in the sense of putting out the cigarette one is smoking now, lit. 'leave from the tobacco') lähteä hippasilta: stop playing tag (hippa=tag, olla hippasilla=playing tag) to smell/taste/feel/look/sound like something haisee pahalta: smells bad maistuu hyvältä: tastes good tuntuu kamalalta: feels awful näyttää tyhmältä: looks stupid kuulostaa mukavalta: sounds nice Estonian The ablative case in Estonian is the ninth case and has a similar function to that in Hungarian. Hungarian The ablative case in Hungarian is used to describe movement away from, as well as a concept, object, act or event originating from an object, person, location or entity. For example, one walking away from a friend who gave him a gift could say the following: a barátomtól jövök (I am coming (away) from my friend). a barátomtól kaptam egy ajándékot (I got a gift from my friend). When used to describe movement away from a location, the case may only refer to movement from the general vicinity of the location and not from inside of it. Thus, a postától jövök would mean one had been standing next to the post office before, not inside the building. When the case is used to refer to the origin of a possible act or event, the act/event may be implied while not explicitly stated, such as : I will defend you from the robber. The application of vowel harmony gives two different suffixes: -tól and -től. These are applied to back-vowel and front-vowel words, respectively. Hungarian has a narrower delative case, similar to ablative, but more specific: movement off/from a surface of something, with suffixes -ról and -ről. Turkic languages Azerbaijani The ablative in Azerbaijani () is expressed through the suffixes -dan or -dən: Ev – evdən House – from/off the house Aparmaq – aparmaqdan To carry – from/off carrying Tatar The ablative in Tatar () is expressed through the suffixes -дан or -дән or -тан or -тән or -нан or -нән: Өй - өйдән House - from/off the house Turkish The ablative in Turkish (-den hali or ayrılma hali) is expressed through the suffix -den (which changes to -dan, -ten or -tan to accommodate the vowel and voicing harmony): Ev – evden House – from/off the house At – attan Horse – from/off the horse Taşımak – taşımaktan To carry – from/off carrying Ses – sesten Sound/volume – from/off sound/volume In some situations simple ablative can have a "because of" meaning; in these situations, ablative can be optionally followed by the postposition dolayı "because of". Yüksek sesten (dolayı) rahatsız oldum. / I was uneasy because of high volume. Tungusic Manchu The ablative in Manchu is expressed through the suffix -ci and can also be used to express comparisons. It is usually not directly attached to its parent word. Evenki The ablative in Evenki is expressed with the suffix -duk. See also Allative case Delative case Locative case Further reading References Grammatical cases
The Adamic language, according to Jewish tradition (as recorded in the midrashim) and some Christians, is the language spoken by Adam (and possibly Eve) in the Garden of Eden. It is variously interpreted as either the language used by God to address Adam (the divine language), or the language invented by Adam with which he named all things (including Eve), as in the second Genesis creation narrative (). In the Middle Ages, various Jewish commentators held that Adam spoke Hebrew, a view also addressed in various ways by the late medieval Italian poet Dante Alighieri. In the early modern period, some authors continued to discuss the possibility of an Adamic language, some continuing to hold to the idea that it was Hebrew, while others such as John Locke were more skeptical. More recently, a variety of Mormon authors have expressed various opinions about the nature of the Adamic language. According to Ethiopian and Eritrean traditions, the ancient Semitic language of Ge'ez is the language of Adam, the first and original language. Patristic Period Augustine addresses the issue in The City of God. While not explicit, the implication of there being but one human language prior to the Tower of Babel's collapse is that the language, which was preserved by Heber and his son Peleg, and which is recognized as the language passed down to Abraham and his descendants, is the language that would have been used by Adam. Middle Ages Traditional Jewish exegesis such as Midrash says that Adam spoke the Hebrew language because the names he gives Eve – Isha and Chava – only make sense in Hebrew. By contrast, Kabbalism assumed an "eternal Torah" which was not identical to the Torah written in Hebrew. Thus, Abraham Abulafia in the 13th century assumed that the language spoken in Paradise had been different from Hebrew, and rejected the claim then-current also among Christian authors, that a child left unexposed to linguistic stimulus would automatically begin to speak in Hebrew. Umberto Eco (1993) notes that Genesis is ambiguous on whether the language of Adam was preserved by Adam's descendants until the confusion of tongues, or if it began to evolve naturally even before Babel. Dante Alighieri addresses the topic in his De vulgari eloquentia (1302–1305). He argues that the Adamic language is of divine origin and therefore unchangeable. He also notes that according to Genesis, the first speech act is due to Eve, addressing the serpent, and not to Adam. In his Divine Comedy (c. 1308–1320), however, Dante changes his view to another that treats the Adamic language as the product of Adam. This had the consequence that it could no longer be regarded as immutable, and hence Hebrew could not be regarded as identical with the language of Paradise. Dante concludes (Paradiso XXVI) that Hebrew is a derivative of the language of Adam. In particular, the chief Hebrew name for God in scholastic tradition, El, must be derived of a different Adamic name for God, which Dante gives as I. Early modern period Proponents Elizabethan scholar John Dee makes references to an occult or angelic language recorded in his private journals and those of spirit medium Edward Kelley. Dee's journals did not describe the language as "Enochian", instead preferring "Angelical", the "Celestial Speech", the "Language of Angels", the "First Language of God-Christ", the "Holy Language", or "Adamical" because, according to Dee's Angels, it was used by Adam in Paradise to name all things. The language was later dubbed Enochian, due to Dee's assertion that the Biblical Patriarch Enoch had been the last human (before Dee and Kelley) to know the language. Dutch physician, linguist, and humanist Johannes Goropius Becanus (1519–1572) theorized in Origines Antwerpianae (1569) that Antwerpian Brabantic, spoken in the region between the Scheldt and Meuse Rivers, was the original language spoken in Paradise. Goropius believed that the most ancient language on Earth would be the simplest language, and that the simplest language would contain mostly short words. Since Brabantic has a higher number of short words than do Latin, Greek, and Hebrew, Goropius reasoned that it was the older language. His work influenced that of Simon Stevin (1548–1620), who espoused similar ideas in "Uytspraeck van de weerdicheyt der Duytse tael", a chapter in De Beghinselen Der Weeghconst (1586). Opponents By the 17th century, the existence and nature of the alleged Adamic language was commonly discussed amongst European Jewish and Christian mystics and primitive linguists. Robert Boyle (1627–1691) was skeptical that Hebrew was the language best capable of describing the nature of things, stating: I could never find, that the Hebrew names of animals, mentioned in the beginning of Genesis, argued a (much) clearer insight into their natures, than did the names of the same or some other animals in Greek, or other languages (1665:45). John Locke (1632–1704) expressed similar skepticism in his An Essay Concerning Human Understanding (1690). Modern period Latter Day Saint movement Joseph Smith, founder of the Latter Day Saint movement, in his revision of the Bible, declared the Adamic language to have been "pure and undefiled". Some Latter Day Saints believe it to be the language of God. Glossolalia, or speaking in tongues, was commonplace in the early years of the movement, and it was commonly believed that the incomprehensible language spoken during these incidents was the language of Adam. However, this belief seems to have never been formally or officially adopted. Some other early Latter Day Saint leaders, including Brigham Young, Orson Pratt, and Elizabeth Ann Whitney, claimed to have received several words in the Adamic language by revelation. Some Latter Day Saints believe that the Adamic language is the "pure language" spoken of by Zephaniah and that it will be restored as the universal language of humankind at the end of the world. Apostle Orson Pratt declared that "Ahman", part of the name of the settlement "Adam-ondi-Ahman" in Daviess County, Missouri, was the name of God in the Adamic language. An 1832 handwritten page from the Joseph Smith Papers, titled "A Sample of the Pure Language", and reportedly dictated by Smith to "Br. Johnson", asserts that the name of God is Awman. The Latter Day Saint endowment prayer circle once included use of the words "Pay Lay Ale". These untranslated words are no longer used in temple ordinances and have been replaced by an English version, "O God, hear the words of my mouth". Some believe that the "Pay Lay Ale" sentence is derived from the Hebrew phrase "pe le-El" (), "mouth to God". "Pay Lay Ale" was identified in the temple ceremony as words from the "pure Adamic language". Other words thought by some Latter Day Saints to derive from the Adamic language include deseret ("honey bee") and Ahman ("God"). The Book of Moses refers to "a book of remembrance" written in the language of Adam. Goidelic languages It has also been claimed that Scottish Gaelic or Irish was the language spoken in the Garden of Eden. One book that promoted this theory was Adhamh agus Eubh, no Craobh Sheanachais nan Gàël (1837; "Adam and Eve; or, the Gaelic Family Tree"). See also History of linguistics Mythical origins of language Origin of language Proto-Human language Universal language References Bibliography Allison P. Coudert (ed.), The Language of Adam = Die Sprache Adams, Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz, 1999. Angelo Mazzocco, Linguistic Theories in Dante and the Humanists, (chapter 9: "Dante's Reappraisal of the Adamic language", 159–181). Umberto Eco, The Search for the Perfect Language (1993). Dante Alighieri Garden of Eden Hebrew language Kabbalah Language and mysticism Latter Day Saint temple practices Midrashim Obsolete scientific theories Religious language Spurious languages Religious concepts related with Adam and Eve
Antipope Felix, an archdeacon of Rome, was installed as Pope in 355 AD after the Emperor Constantius II banished the reigning Pope, Liberius, for refusing to subscribe to a sentence of condemnation against Saint Athanasius. Biography In May 357 AD the Roman laity, which had remained faithful to Liberius, demanded that Constantius, who was on a visit to Rome, should recall Liberius. The Emperor planned to have Felix and Liberius rule jointly, but when Liberius returned Felix was forced to retire to Porto, near Rome, where, after making an unsuccessful attempt to establish himself again in Rome, he died on 22 November 365 AD. This Felix was later confused with a Roman martyr named Felix, with the result that he was included in lists of the Popes as Felix II and that the succeeding Popes of the same name (Pope Felix III and Pope Felix IV) were given wrong numerals, as was Antipope Felix V. The Catholic Encyclopedia (1909) called this confusion a "distortion of the true facts" and suggested that it arose because the "Liber Pontificalis", which at this point may be registering a reliable tradition, says that this Felix built a church on the Via Aurelia, which is where the Roman martyr of an earlier date was buried. However, a more recent source says that of the martyr Felix nothing is known except his name, that he was a martyr, and that he was buried in the cemetery on the Via Portuensis that bears his name. The Catholic Encyclopedia remarked that "the real story of the antipope was lost and he obtained in local Roman history the status of a saint and a confessor. As such he appears in the Roman Martyrology on 29 July." At that time (1909) the Roman Martyrology had the following text: This entry was based on what the Catholic Encyclopedia called later legends that confound the relative positions of Felix and Liberius. More recent editions of the Roman Martyrology have instead: The feast day of the Roman martyr Felix is 29 July. The antipope Felix died, as stated above, on a 22 November, and his death was not a martyr's, occurring when the Peace of Constantine had been in force for half a century. As well as the Roman Martyrology, the Roman Missal identified the Saint Felix of 29 July with the antipope. This identification, still found in the 1920 typical edition, does not appear in the 1962 typical edition. To judge by the Marietti printing of 1952, which omits the numeral "II" and the word "Papae", the correction had already been made by then. One Catholic writer excuses this by saying that the antipope "himself did refuse to accept Arianism, and so his feast has been kept in the past on [29 July]". See also Papal selection before 1059 References External links The Papal Schism between Liberius and Felix (a primary source) Catholic Encyclopedia: Felix II Encyclopædia Britannica: Felix (II) 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica: Felix II Felix II Felix II 4th-century antipopes 4th-century Christian clergy Felix II Ancient Christians involved in controversies Felix II Date of birth unknown Date of death unknown Place of birth unknown Place of death unknown
Albion is a city in Calhoun County in the south central region of the Lower Peninsula of the U.S. state of Michigan. The population was 7,700 at the 2020 census and is part of the Battle Creek Metropolitan Statistical Area. The earliest English-speaking settlers also referred to this area as The Forks, because it is situated at the confluence of the north and south branches of the Kalamazoo River. In the early 20th century, immigrants came to Albion from a variety of eastern European nations, including the current Lithuania and Russia. More recently, Hispanic or Latino immigrants have come from Mexico and Central America. The Festival of the Forks has been held annually since 1967 to celebrate Albion's diverse ethnic heritage. Since the 19th century, several major manufacturers were established here and Albion became known as a factory town. This has changed with the closure of several manufacturers. In the 21st century, Albion's culture is changing to that of a college town whose residents have a strong interest in technology and sustainability issues. Albion College is a private liberal arts college with a student population of about 1,250. Albion is a sister city with Noisy-le-Roi, France. History The first European-American settler, Tenney Peabody, arrived in 1833 along with his brother-in-law Charles Blanchard, and another young man named Clark Dowling. Peabody's family followed soon after. In 1835, the Albion Company, a land development company formed by Jesse Crowell, platted a village. Peabody's wife was asked to name the settlement. She considered the name "Peabodyville", but selected "Albion" instead, after the former residence of Jesse Crowell. Crowell was appointed in 1838 as the first US postmaster here. Many early settlers migrated here from western New York and New England, part of a movement after construction of the Erie Canal, and opening of new lands in Michigan and other Great Lakes territories. They first developed agriculture and it became a rural trading village. Settlers were strong supporters of education and in 1835, Methodists established Albion College affiliated with their church. The first classes were held in Albion in 1843. The college was known by a few other names before 1861. At that time it was fully authorized to confer four-year degrees on both men and women. Albion incorporated as a village in 1855, following construction of the railroad here in 1852, which stimulated development. It became a city in 1885. Mills were constructed to operate on the water power of the forks of the Kalamazoo River. They were the first industry in the town, used to process lumber, grain and other products to build the village. Albion quickly became a mill town as well as an agricultural market. The river that powered industry also flooded the town. In the Great Flood of 1908, there was severe property damage. In February, snowstorms had deposited several feet of snow across the region. Heavy rains and warmer conditions in early March created water saturation in the ground and risk of flooding because of the high flow in the rivers. After the Homer Dam broke around 3 p.m. on March 7, the Kalamazoo River flooded Albion. By midnight, the bridges surrounding town were underwater. Six buildings in Albion collapsed, resulting in more than US$125,000 in damage (1908 dollars). The town struggled to recover. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, numerous Lithuanian and other Eastern European immigrants settled here, most working for the Albion Malleable Iron Company, and some in the coal mine north of town. The iron company had initially made agricultural implements but around World War I shifted to making automotive parts. The Malleable merged in 1969 with the Hayes Corporation, becoming the Hayes-Albion Corporation. Now known as a division of Harvard Industries, the company continues to produce automotive castings in Albion. Molder Statue Park in downtown is dedicated to the many molders who dealt with molten iron. There were soon enough Lithuanians in town to establish Holy Ascension Orthodox Church, which they built in 1916. It is part of the Orthodox Church in America. Today its services are in English. The city had its peak of population in 1960. In 1973 Albion was named an All-America City by the National Civic League. It celebrated winning the award on May 15, 1974, when the Governor of Michigan, William Milliken, and many dignitaries came to town. In 1975 the closure of a major factory began a difficult period of industrial restructuring and decline in jobs and population. Since that time citizens have mobilized, founding the Albion Community Foundation in 1968. They formed the Albion Volunteer Service Organization in the 1980s, with support from Albion College, to address the challenge of diminishing economic opportunity. Key to the City Honor Bestowed: 1964: Aunt Jemima visited Albion on January 25. 1960s: Columnist Ann Landers was presented with a key upon her visit to Starr Commonwealth for Boys. Law and government Albion has a Council-Manager form of government. City residents elect a Mayor at-large and City Council members from each of six single-member districts. The council in turn selects a City Manager to handle day-to-day affairs of the city. The mayor presides over and is a voting member of the council. Council members are elected to four-year terms, staggered every two years. A mayor is elected every two years. The city levies an income tax of 1 percent on residents and 0.5 percent on nonresidents. Geography According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of , of which is land and is water. Albion is positioned 42.24 degrees north of the equator and 84.75 degrees west of the prime meridian. Climate Demographics 2010 population by gender/age 2010 population by ethnicity 2010 population by race Transportation Major highways Rail Amtrak, the national passenger rail system, provides daily service to Albion, operating its Wolverine both directions between Chicago, Illinois and Pontiac, Michigan, via Detroit. Bus Greyhound Lines provides daily intercity city bus service to Albion between Chicago, Illinois and Detroit. Notable people Kim Cascone, musician, composer, owner of Silent Records; born in Albion M. F. K. Fisher, food writer, born in Albion Ada Iddings Gale, author, lived and buried in Albion Frank Joranko, football player and coach for Albion College LaVall Jordan, head men's basketball coach for Butler University, born in Albion Martin Wells Knapp, American Methodist evangelist who founded the Pilgrim Holiness Church and God's Bible School and College, born in Albion. Bill Laswell, jazz bassist, record producer and record label owner; raised in Albion Jerome D. Mack, banker, director of Las Vegas hotels Riviera and Dunes, founder of University of Nevada, Las Vegas; born in Albion Deacon McGuire, professional baseball player for 26 seasons, lived in Albion Gary Lee Nelson, composer, pioneer in electronic and computer music; grew up in Albion John Sinclair, poet and political activist, attended Albion College Jon Scieszka, children's author, attended Albion College Brian Tyler, racing driver, born in Albion Jack Vaughn, Assistant Secretary of State, Ambassador to Panama and Colombia, and Director of the Peace Corps (1966-1969); grew up in Albion The War and Treaty, musical duo See also Holy Ascension Orthodox Church References External links City of Albion official website Albion City Information Page Albion District Library Albion Michigan Home Page Historical Albion Michigan Festival of the Forks – Albion's annual music and food festival by the forks of the Kalamazoo River The Greater Albion Chamber of Commerce Albion Michigan Community Foundation – For Good. For Ever. Cities in Calhoun County, Michigan Populated places established in 1835 1835 establishments in Michigan Territory
The Abu Nidal Organization (ANO; ), officially Fatah – The Revolutionary Council ( ), was a Palestinian militant group founded by Abu Nidal in 1974. It broke away from Fatah, a faction within the Palestine Liberation Organization, following the emergence of a rift between Abu Nidal and Yasser Arafat. The ANO was designated as a terrorist organization by Israel, the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, the European Union. and Japan. It became inactive in 1997. In practice, the ANO was secular, anti-Zionist, and anti-Western. However, it was not particularly associated with any specific ideology — or at least no such foundation was declared. It was mostly linked with the pursuit of Abu Nidal's personal agendas. Like other Palestinian militant groups, the ANO carried out worldwide hijackings, assassinations, kidnappings of diplomats, and attacks on synagogues. It was responsible for 90 such attacks between 1974 and 1992. In 2002, Abu Nidal died under disputed circumstances in Baghdad, Iraq, with Palestinian sources claiming that he was assassinated on the orders of erstwhile Iraqi president Saddam Hussein. Formation and background The Abu Nidal Organization was established by Sabri Khalil al-Bannah (Abu Nidal), a Palestinian Arab nationalist and a former Ba'ath party member. Al-Bannah established his faction within the PLO, just prior the Black September in Jordan, and following internal disagreements within the PLO. During Fatah's Third Congress in Damascus in 1971, he emerged as the leader of a leftist alliance against Yasser Arafat. Abu Nidal's first independent operation took place on September 5, 1973, when five gunmen using the name Al-Iqab ("The Punishment") seized the Saudi embassy in Paris, taking 11 hostages and threatening to blow up the building if Abu Dawud was not released from jail in Jordan, where he had been arrested in February 1973 for an attempt on King Hussein's life. Following the incident, Mahmoud Abbas of the PLO took flight to Iraq to meet Abu Nidal. In the meeting Abbas became so angry, that he stormed out of the meeting, followed by the other PLO delegates, and from that point on, the PLO regarded Abu Nidal as a mercenary. Two months later, just after the October 1973 Yom Kippur War, during discussions about convening a peace conference in Geneva, the Abu Nidal Organization (ANO) hijacked a KLM airliner, using the name of the Arab Nationalist Youth Organization. The operation was intended to send a signal to Fatah not to send representatives to any peace conference. In response, Arafat officially expelled Abu Nidal from Fatah in March 1974, and the rift between the two groups, and the two men, was complete. In June the same year, ANO formed the Rejectionist Front, a political coalition that opposed the Ten Point Program adopted by the Palestine Liberation Organization in its 12th Palestinian National Congress session. Abu Nidal then moved to Ba'athist Iraq where he set up the ANO, which soon began a string of terrorist attacks aimed at Israel and Western countries. Setting himself up as a freelance contractor, Abu Nidal is believed by the United States Department of State to have ordered attacks in 20 countries, killing or injuring over 900 people. The ANO group's most notorious attacks were on the El Al ticket counters at Rome and Vienna airports in December 1985, when Arab gunmen high on amphetamines opened fire on passengers in simultaneous shootings, killing 18 and wounding 120. Patrick Seale, Abu Nidal's biographer, wrote of the attacks that their "random cruelty marked them as typical Abu Nidal operations." Attacks The ANO carried out attacks in 20 countries, killing or injuring almost 1,650 persons. Targets include the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Israel, moderate Palestinians, the PLO, and various Arab and European countries. The group has not attacked Western targets since the late 1980s. Major attacks included the Rome and Vienna Airport Attacks in December 1985, the Neve Shalom synagogue in Istanbul and the Pan Am Flight 73 hijacking in Karachi in September 1986, and the City of Poros day-excursion ship attack in Greece in July 1988. The ANO has been especially noted for its uncompromising stance on negotiation with Israel, treating anything less than all-out military struggle against Israel as treachery. This led the group to perform numerous attacks against the PLO, which had made clear it accepted a negotiated solution to the conflict. Fatah-RC is believed to have assassinated PLO deputy chief Abu Iyad and PLO security chief Abul Hul in Tunis in January 1991. It assassinated a Jordanian diplomat in Lebanon in January 1994 and has been linked to the killing of the PLO representative there. Noted PLO moderate Issam Sartawi was killed by the Fatah-RC in 1983. In the late 1970s, the group also made a failed assassination attempt on the present Palestinian president and PLO chairman, Mahmoud Abbas. These attacks, and numerous others, led to the PLO issuing a death sentence in absentia against Abu Nidal. In the early 1990s, it made an attempt to gain control of a refugee camp in Lebanon, but this was thwarted by PLO organizations. Internal executions and torture The ANO's official newspaper Filastin al-Thawra regularly carried stories announcing the execution of traitors within the movement. Each new recruit of the ANO was given several days to write down his life story and sign a paper agreeing to his execution if anything was found to be untrue. Every so often, the recruit would be asked to rewrite the whole story. Any discrepancies were taken as evidence that he was a spy and he would be made to write it out again, often after days of being beaten and nights spent forced to sleep standing up. By 1987, Abu Nidal used extreme torture tactics on members of the ANO who were suspected of betrayal and disloyalty. The tactics included hanging prisoners naked, whipping them until unconsciousness, using salt or chili powder to revive them, forcing them into a car tire for whipping and salt application, melting plastic on their skin, frying their genitals, and confining them in tiny cells bound hand and foot. If cells were full, prisoners might be buried alive with a steel pipe for breathing. Execution was carried out by firing a bullet down the pipe. From 1987 to 1988, hundreds of members of Abu Nidal's organization were killed due to internal paranoia and terror tactics. The elderly wife of a veteran member was also killed on false charges. The killings were mostly carried out by four individuals: Mustafa Ibrahim Sanduqa, Isam Maraqa, Sulaiman Samrin, and Mustafa Awad. Decisions to kill were mostly made by Abu Nidal after he had consumed a whole bottle of whiskey at night. According to ANO dissidents, the attacks made by the group were unconnected to the Palestinian cause and led to their defection. In addition, they claimed the guerrilla was the "living example of paranoia". See also Abu Nidal Arab People's Movement Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine References Citations Sources Further reading Abu Nidal: Ruthless maverick Abu Nidal Arab nationalist militant groups Palestinian terrorism in Europe Organisations designated as terrorist by Japan Organisations designated as terrorist by the European Union Organisations designated as terrorist by the United Kingdom Organizations designated as terrorist by the United States Organizations based in Asia designated as terrorist Palestinian militant groups Organizations designated as terrorist by Canada
ALF Tales is a 30-minute Saturday morning animated series that aired on NBC from September 10, 1988, to December 9, 1989. The show is a spin-off of ALF: The Animated Series which featured characters from that series playing various characters from fairy tales. The fairy tale parody was usually altered for comedic effect in a manner akin to Jay Ward's "Fractured Fairy Tales". The episodes were performed in the style of a resident theater company or ensemble cast where Gordon and Rhonda would take the leading male and female roles, and the other characters were cast according to their characteristics. Many stories spoof a film genre, such as the "Cinderella" episode which is presented like an Elvis Presley film. Some episodes featured a "fourth wall" effect where Gordon is backstage preparing for the episode, and Rob Cowan would appear drawn as a TV executive (who introduced himself as "Roger Cowan, network executive") who tries to brief Gordon on how to improve this episode. For instance Cowan once told Gordon who was readying for a medieval themed episode that "less than 2% of our audience lives in the Dark Ages". Cast Paul Fusco – ALF (Gordon Shumway)/Rick Fusterman Tabitha St. Germain (as Paulina Gillis) – Augie/Rhonda Peggy Mahon – Flo Thick Wilson – Larson Petty/Bob Dan Hennessey – Sloop Rob Cowan – Skip Ellen-Ray Hennessy – Stella the Waitress Noam Zylberman – Curtis (1988) Michael Fantini – Curtis (1989) Episodes Season 1 (1988–89) Season 2 (1989) Home media The first seven episodes were released on DVD on May 30, 2006, in Region 1 from Lionsgate Home Entertainment in a single-disc release entitled ALF and The Beanstalk and Other Classic Fairy Tales. See also List of animated spinoffs from prime time shows References External links ALF (TV series) 1980s American animated television series 1980s American comic science fiction television series 1988 American television series debuts 1989 American television series endings American animated television spin-offs American children's animated comic science fiction television series Animated television series about extraterrestrial life English-language television shows NBC original programming Television series by DIC Entertainment Television series by Lorimar Television Television series by Saban Entertainment Television series created by Paul Fusco Television series created by Tom Patchett Television shows based on fairy tales Television series by Lorimar-Telepictures
Andreas Aagesen (5 August 1826 – 26 October 1879) was a Danish jurist. Biography Aagesen was educated for the law at Christianshavn and Copenhagen, and interrupted his studies in 1848 to take part in the First Schleswig War, in which he served as the leader of a reserve battalion. In 1855 Aagesen became a professor of jurisprudence at the University of Copenhagen. In 1870 he was appointed a member of the commission for drawing up a maritime and commercial code, and the navigation law of 1882 is mainly his work. In 1879 he was elected a member of the Landsting (one of two chambers of the Danish Parliament, the Rigsdagen); but it is as a teacher at the university that he won his reputation. Aagesen was Carl Christian Hall's successor as lecturer on Roman law at the university, and in this department his research was epoch-making. Bibliography Among his numerous juridical works may be mentioned: Bidrag til Læren om Overdragelse af Ejendomsret, Bemærkinger om Rettigheder over Ting (Copenhagen, 1866, 1871–1872); Fortegnelse over Retssamlinger, Retslitteratur i Danmark, Norge, Sverige (Copenhagen, 1876). Notes References Attribution This source cites: Johan Henrik Deuntzer, Dansk biografisk leksikon, vol. i. (Copenhagen, 1887) (online); Samlede Skrifter, edited by F. C. Bornemann (Copenhagen, 1883) External links Obituary 1826 births 1879 deaths Danish jurists Members of the Landsting (Denmark) Academic staff of the University of Copenhagen 19th-century Danish military officers Rectors of the University of Copenhagen
The Auger effect (; ) or Auger−Meitner effect is a physical phenomenon in which the filling of an inner-shell vacancy of an atom is accompanied by the emission of an electron from the same atom. When a core electron is removed, leaving a vacancy, an electron from a higher energy level may fall into the vacancy, resulting in a release of energy. For light atoms (Z<12), this energy is most often transferred to a valence electron which is subsequently ejected from the atom. This second ejected electron is called an Auger electron. For heavier atomic nuclei, the release of the energy in the form of an emitted photon becomes gradually more probable. Effect Upon ejection, the kinetic energy of the Auger electron corresponds to the difference between the energy of the initial electronic transition into the vacancy and the ionization energy for the electron shell from which the Auger electron was ejected. These energy levels depend on the type of atom and the chemical environment in which the atom was located. Auger electron spectroscopy involves the emission of Auger electrons by bombarding a sample with either X-rays or energetic electrons and measures the intensity of Auger electrons that result as a function of the Auger electron energy. The resulting spectra can be used to determine the identity of the emitting atoms and some information about their environment. Auger recombination is a similar Auger effect which occurs in semiconductors. An electron and electron hole (electron-hole pair) can recombine giving up their energy to an electron in the conduction band, increasing its energy. The reverse effect is known as impact ionization. The Auger effect can impact biological molecules such as DNA. Following the K-shell ionization of the component atoms of DNA, Auger electrons are ejected leading to damage of its sugar-phosphate backbone. Discovery The Auger emission process was observed and published in 1922 by Lise Meitner, an Austrian-Swedish physicist, as a side effect in her competitive search for the nuclear beta electrons with the British physicist Charles Drummond Ellis. The French physicist Pierre Victor Auger independently discovered it in 1923 upon analysis of a Wilson cloud chamber experiment and it became the central part of his PhD work. High-energy X-rays were applied to ionize gas particles and observe photoelectric electrons. The observation of electron tracks that were independent of the frequency of the incident photon suggested a mechanism for electron ionization that was caused from an internal conversion of energy from a radiationless transition. Further investigation, and theoretical work using elementary quantum mechanics and transition rate/transition probability calculations, showed that the effect was a radiationless effect more than an internal conversion effect. See also Auger therapy Charge carrier generation and recombination Characteristic X-ray Coster–Kronig transition Electron capture Radiative Auger effect References Atomic physics Foundational quantum physics Electron spectroscopy
Ardal O'Hanlon () is an Irish comedian, actor, and author. He played Father Dougal McGuire in Father Ted (1995–1998), George Sunday/Thermoman in My Hero (2000–2006), and DI Jack Mooney in Death in Paradise (2017–2020). His novel The Talk of the Town was published in 1998. Early life O'Hanlon was born in Carrickmacross, County Monaghan, the son of Fianna Fáil TD and physician Rory O'Hanlon and Teresa (née Ward). He is the third of six children, and has three brothers and two sisters. O'Hanlon was schooled in Blackrock College in Dublin and graduated, in 1987, from the National Institute for Higher Education, Dublin (now Dublin City University), with a degree in communications studies. Career Together with Kevin Gildea and Barry Murphy, O'Hanlon founded the International Comedy Cellar, upstairs in the International Bar on Dublin's South Wicklow Street. Dublin had no comedy scene at the time. As a stand up, O'Hanlon won the Hackney Empire New Act of the Year competition in 1994. For a time he was the presenter of The Stand Up Show. He was spotted by Graham Linehan, who was to cast him as Father Dougal McGuire in Father Ted (1995–98). During filming, O’Hanlon went to buy shoes. Still being in costume, the seller thought he was a real priest and offered the footwear for free. In 1995 he received the Top TV Comedy Newcomer at the British Comedy Awards for this role. In 1995, he appeared (as Father Dougal) in a Channel 4 ident ("Hello, you're watching ... television"), and during Comic Relief on BBC1. This was followed by the award-winning short comedy film Flying Saucer Rock'n'Roll. In a 2019 interview, O'Hanlon admitted that he had attempted to distance himself from Father Ted once the show had finished. O'Hanlon moved into straight acting alongside Emma Fielding and Beth Goddard in the ITV comedy-drama Big Bad World, which aired for two series in summer 1999 and winter 2001. He also played a minor role in The Butcher Boy as Joe's (Francie's best friend) father, and appeared in an episode of the original Whose Line is it Anyway?. In 2000, O'Hanlon starred in the comedy series My Hero, in which he played a very naive superhero from the planet Ultron. His character juggled world-saving heroics with life in suburbia. He stayed in the role until the first episode of series 6 in July 2006, when he was replaced by James Dreyfus during the same episode. O'Hanlon also provided the voice of the lead character in the three Christmas television cartoon specials of Robbie the Reindeer. He appeared in the 2005 BBC One sitcom Blessed, written by Ben Elton; at the 2005 British Comedy Awards, it was publicly slated by Jonathan Ross, albeit in jest. Towards the end of 2005, he played an eccentric Scottish character, Coconut Tam, in the family based film, The Adventures of Greyfriars Bobby. He has also appeared on radio, including an appearance on Quote... Unquote on BBC Radio 4 on 18 July 2011. Appropriately, one of his questions concerned a quotation from Father Ted. In 2015, he appeared as incompetent angel Smallbone in the sitcom The Best Laid Plans, on the same channel. In 2006, O'Hanlon wrote and presented an RTÉ television series called Leagues Apart, which saw him investigate the biggest and most passionate football rivalries in a number of European countries. Included were Roma vs Lazio in Italy, Barcelona vs Real Madrid in Spain, and Galatasaray vs Fenerbahce in Turkey. He followed this with another RTÉ show, So You Want To Be Taoiseach? in 2007. It was a political series in which O'Hanlon gave tongue-in-cheek advice on how to go about becoming Taoiseach of Ireland. He appeared in the Doctor Who episode "Gridlock", broadcast on 14 April 2007, in which he played a catlike creature named Thomas Kincade Brannigan. O'Hanlon appears in series 3 of the TV show Skins, playing Naomi Campbell (Lily Loveless)'s politics teacher named Kieran, who attempted to kiss her. He then went on to form a relationship with Naomi's mother (Olivia Colman). O'Hanlon plays the lead role in Irish comedy television programme Val Falvey, TD on RTÉ One. In 2012, he performed in the Edinburgh Fringe. In February 2011, O'Hanlon returned to the Gate Theatre, Dublin starring in the Irish premiere of Christopher Hampton's translation of Yasmina Reza's God of Carnage, alongside Maura Tierney. Later that year, he appeared in the comedy panel show Argumental. O'Hanlon has written a novel, The Talk of the Town (known in the United States as Knick Knack Paddy Whack), which was published in 1998. The novel is about a teenage boy, Patrick Scully, and his friends. In February 2015 he officially launched the 2015 Sky Cat Laughs Comedy Festival, which took place in Kilkenny from 28 May–1 June. In 2015 he played the role of Peter the Milkman in the Sky One sitcom After Hours. On 2 February 2017, it was announced he would play the lead role in the BBC crime drama Death in Paradise taking the role of DI Jack Mooney following Kris Marshall's departure the same day. He announced his intention to leave the series in early 2020 and was replaced by Ralf Little. On 25 November 2021, it was announced that he would participate in series 13 of Taskmaster. He finished in 4th place ahead of Judi Love. Personal life O'Hanlon met his wife Melanie as a teenager. They have three children. He is a supporter of Leeds United. Filmography Awards References External links Ardal O'Hanlon on comedycv.co.uk Ardal O'Hanlon in Melbourne at The Australian Ireland Fund charity event Living people Year of birth missing (living people) 20th-century Irish comedians 21st-century Irish comedians Alumni of Dublin City University Father Ted Irish humorists Irish male comedians Irish male stage actors Irish male television actors 20th-century Irish novelists Irish stand-up comedians People educated at Blackrock College People from Carrickmacross Irish male novelists Actors from County Monaghan 20th-century Irish male writers
Audio most commonly refers to sound, as it is transmitted in signal form. It may also refer to: Sound Audio signal, an electrical representation of sound Audio frequency, a frequency in the audio spectrum Digital audio, representation of sound in a form processed and/or stored by computers or digital electronics Audio, audible content (media) in audio production and publishing Semantic audio, extraction of symbols or meaning from audio Stereophonic audio, method of sound reproduction that creates an illusion of multi-directional audible perspective Audio equipment Entertainment AUDIO (group), an American R&B band of 5 brothers formerly known as TNT Boyz and as B5 Audio (album), an album by the Blue Man Group Audio (magazine), a magazine published from 1947 to 2000 Audio (musician), British drum and bass artist "Audio" (song), a song by LSD Computing , an HTML element, see HTML5 audio See also Acoustic (disambiguation) Audible (disambiguation) Audiobook Radio broadcasting Sound recording and reproduction Sound reinforcement
The House of Ascania () was a dynasty of German rulers. It is also known as the House of Anhalt, which refers to its longest-held possession, Anhalt. The Ascanians are named after Ascania (or Ascaria) Castle, known as Schloss Askanien in German, which was located near and named after Aschersleben. The castle was the seat of the County of Ascania, a title that was later subsumed into the titles of the princes of Anhalt. History The earliest known member of the house, Esiko, Count of Ballenstedt, first appears in a document of 1036. He is assumed to have been a grandson (through his mother) of Odo I, Margrave of the Saxon Ostmark. From Odo, the Ascanians inherited large properties in the Saxon Eastern March. Esiko's grandson was Otto, Count of Ballenstedt, who died in 1123. By Otto's marriage to Eilika, daughter of Magnus, Duke of Saxony, the Ascanians became heirs to half of the property of the House of Billung, former dukes of Saxony. Otto's son, Albert the Bear, became, with the help of his mother's inheritance, the first Ascanian duke of Saxony in 1139. However, he soon lost control of Saxony to the rival House of Guelph. Albert inherited the Margraviate of Brandenburg in 1157 from its last Wendish ruler, Pribislav, and he became the first Ascanian margrave. Albert, and his descendants of the House of Ascania, then made considerable progress in Christianizing and Germanizing the lands. As a borderland between German and Slavic cultures, the country was known as a march. In 1237 and 1244, two towns, Cölln and Berlin, were founded during the rule of Otto and Johann, grandsons of Margrave Albert the Bear. Later, they were united into one city, Berlin. The emblem of the House of Ascania, a red eagle and bear, became the heraldic emblems of Berlin. In 1320, the Brandenburg Ascanian line came to an end. After the Emperor had deposed the Guelph rulers of Saxony in 1180, Ascanians returned to rule the Duchy of Saxony, which had been reduced to its eastern half by the Emperor. However, even in eastern Saxony, the Ascanians could establish control only in limited areas, mostly near the River Elbe. In the 13th century, the Principality of Anhalt was split off from the Duchy of Saxony. Later, the remaining state was split into Saxe-Lauenburg and Saxe-Wittenberg. The Ascanian dynasties in the two Saxon states became extinct in 1689 and in 1422, respectively, but Ascanians continued to rule in the smaller state of Anhalt and its various subdivisions until the monarchy was abolished in 1918. Catherine the Great, Empress of Russia from 1762 to 1796, was a member of the House of Ascania, herself the daughter of Christian August, Prince of Anhalt-Zerbst. Rulers of the House of Ascania House of Ascania Partitions of the House of Ascania Table of rulers Heads of the House of Ascania since 1918 Duke Joachim Ernest II 1918–1947 Prince Frederick 1947–1963 Prince Edward 1963–present Family trees (genealogical list of the dynasty in German) Armorial The original arms of the house of Ascania, from their ancestors the Saxon counts of Ballenstedt, were "Barry of ten sable and or". The Ascanian margrave Albert the Bear was invested with the Saxon ducal title in 1138; when he succeeded the Welf's Henry the Lion, who was deposed by Emperor Frederick Barbarossa. In 1180, Albert's son Bernhard, Count of Anhalt received the remaining Saxon territories around Wittenberg and Lauenburg, and the ducal title. Legend, so unlikely to be true, goes that when he rode in front of the emperor, at the occasion of his investiture, he carried a shield with his escutcheon of the Ballenstedt coat of arms (barry sable and or). Barbarossa took the rue wreath he wore against the heat of the sun from his head, hanging it over Bernhard's shield and thus creating the Saxonian crancelin vert ("Barry of ten sable and or, a crancelin vert"). A more likely explanation is that it probably symbolized the waiver of the Lauenburg lands. From about 1260, the Duchy of Saxe-Wittenberg emerged under the Ascanian duke Albert II, who adopted the tradition of the Saxon stem duchy and was granted the Saxon electoral dignity, against the fierce protest of his Ascanian Saxe-Lauenburg cousins. This was confirmed by the Golden Bull of 1356. As the Ascanian Electors of Saxony also held the High office of an Arch-Marshal of the Holy Roman Empire, they added the ensign Per fess sable and argent two swords in saltire gules (the swords later featuring as the trademark of the Meissen china factory) to their coat of arms. When the line became extinct in 1422, the arms and electoral dignity were adopted by the Wettin by margrave Frederick IV of Meissen as it had become synonymous with the Saxon ducal title. When upon German reunification the Free State of Saxony was re-established, the coat of arms was formally confirmed in 1991. The chivalric order was the House Order of Albert the Bear (German: Hausorden Albrechts des Bären or Der Herzoglich Anhaltische Hausorden Albrechts des Bären) which was founded in 1836 as a joint House Order by three dukes of Anhalt from separate branches of the family: Henry, Duke of Anhalt-Köthen, Leopold IV, Duke of Anhalt-Dessau, and Alexander Karl, Duke of Anhalt-Bernburg. The namesake of the order, Albert the Bear, was the first Margrave of Brandenburg from the House of Ascania. The origin of his nickname "the Bear" is unknown. List of states ruled by the House of Ascania County, Principality, and Duchy of Anhalt: c. 1100–1918 Duchy and Electorate of Saxony: 1112, 1139–1142, 1180–1422 County of Weimar-Orlamünde: 1112–1486 Margravate of Brandenburg: 1157–1320 Duchy of Saxe-Lauenburg: 1269–1689 Principality of Lüneburg: 1369–1388 Principality and Duchy of Anhalt-Bernburg: 1252–1468 and 1603–1863 Principality of Anhalt-Zerbst: 1252–1396 and 1544–1796 Principality of Anhalt-Aschersleben: 1252–1315 Principality and Duchy of Anhalt-Köthen: 1396–1561 and 1603–1847 Principality and Duchy of Anhalt-Dessau 1396–1561 and 1603–1863 Principality of Anhalt-Plötzkau 1544–1553 and 1603–1665 Principality of Anhalt-Harzgerode 1635–1709 Principality of Anhalt-Mühlingen: 1667–1714 Principality of Anhalt-Dornburg: 1667–1742 Lordship of Jever: 1667–1796 Principality of Anhalt-Bernburg-Schaumburg-Hoym: 1718–1812 Russian Empire: 1762–1796 References Askanien, Meyers Konversationslexikon, 1888 Trillmich, Werner, Kaiser Konrad II. und seine Zeit, Bonn, 1991 External links Ducal Family of Anhalt (House of Ascania) – official website European Heraldry page (first page of a series) Stirnet: Brandenburg1 (genealogy of the Houses of Ascania and Brandenburg, including the most likely ancestry of the 11th-century House of Ascania) Stirnet: Ascania1 (an alternate possible ancestry of the 11th-century House of Ascania) Saxon nobility
Action Against Hunger () is a global humanitarian organization which originated in France and is committed to ending world hunger. The organization helps malnourished children and provides communities with access to safe water and sustainable solutions to hunger. Pakistan's situation has significant ramifications for food security, particularly with the ongoing high levels of inflation. The added impact of climate change intensifies security concerns, leaving an increasing number of individuals without viable means to provide food and shelter for themselves and their families. In 2022, Action Against Hunger worked in 56 countries around the world with more than 8,990 employees helping 28 million people in need. Action Against Hunger was established in 1979 by a group of French doctors, scientists, and writers. Nobel Prize-winning physicist Alfred Kastler served as the organization's first chairman. Currently, Mumbai-based businessman and philanthropist Ashwini Kakkar serves as International President of Action Against Hunger network. The group initially provided assistance to Afghan refugees in Pakistan, famine-stricken Ugandan communities, and Cambodian refugees in Thailand. It expanded to address additional humanitarian concerns in Africa, the Middle East, Southeast Asia, the Balkans, and elsewhere during the 1980s and 1990s. Action Against Hunger's Scientific Committee pioneered the therapeutic milk formula (F100), now used by all major humanitarian aid organizations to treat acute malnutrition. Early results showed that treatment with F100 has the capacity to reduce the mortality rate of severely malnourished children to below 5%, with a median hospital fatality rate quoted of 23.5% A few years later, the therapeutic milk was repackaged as ready-to-use therapeutic foods (RUTFs), a peanut-based paste packaged like a power bar. These bars allow for the treatment of malnutrition at home and do not require any preparation or refrigeration. The international network currently has headquarters in eight countries – France, Germany, Spain, the United States, Canada, Italy, India, and the UK. Its four main areas of work include nutrition, food security, water and sanitation, and advocacy. The integrated approaches with various sectors of intervention are: Nutrition and Health Water, Sanitation and Hygiene Food Security & Livelihoods Emergency Response In 2022, Action Against Hunger USA is leading a USAID-funded project to address health and nutrition challenges associated with policy, advocacy, financing, and governance in communities around the world, and will work in partnership with leading organizations such as Pathfinder International, Amref Health Africa, Global Communities, Humanity & Inclusion, Kupenda for the Children, and Results for Development. Restaurants against hunger Action Against Hunger partners with leaders from the food and beverage industry to bring attention to global hunger. Each year, several campaigns are run by the network to raise funds and support the organisation's programs : Restaurants Against Hunger and Love Food Give Food. Countries of intervention In 2022, Action Against Hunger International Network is present in 56 countries: Africa Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Ivory Coast, Ethiopia, Kenya, Liberia, Malawi, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Nigeria, Uganda, Central African Republic, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, South Sudan, Sudan, Tanzania, Chad, Zimbabwe, Zambia Asia Bangladesh, Myanmar, Cambodia, India, Indonesia, Nepal, Pakistan, Philippines, South Caucasus Caribbean Haïti Europe Turkey, Ukraine, Moldova, Romania, Poland Middle East Afghanistan, Lebanon, Syria, Palestinian Occupied Territories, Yemen, Jordan, Iraq Latin America Colombia, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Paraguay, Peru, Honduras Action Against Hunger international network Since 1995 Action Against Hunger developed an international network to have a bigger global impact. The Network has headquarters around the world: France, Germany, Spain, the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, India, and Italy. Action Against Hunger has also a West Africa Regional Office (WARO) located in Dakar, a Horn and Eastern Africa Regional Office in Nairobi, and five logistic platforms (Lyon, Paris, Barcelona, Dubai, Panama). This network increases the human and financial capacities and enables specialisation per headquarter. Action Against Hunger in France, Spain and the USA are the operational headquarters. They manage the interventions directly on the field. In order to maximize efficiency and coherence, these three operational headquarters work under the principle of one headquarter per country of intervention. Action Against Hunger UK focuses on research, monitoring and evaluation, notably with Hunger Watch. The UK headquarters also plays an intermediary role with DFID. Action Against Hunger Canada raises public and private funds in North America and plays an increasing role on the national level. Action Against Hunger / Azione contro la Fame Italia raises private funds and promotes important campaigns in order to sensitize the Italian public opinion on hunger and malnutrition. See also 2006 Trincomalee massacre of NGO workers References Further reading Michelle Jurkovich. 2020. Feeding the Hungry: Advocacy and Blame in the Global Fight against Hunger. Cornell University Press. External links Action Against Hunger US website Action Against Hunger UK website Action Contre la Faim France website Acción Contra el Hambre Spain website Action Contre la Faim Canada website Aktion gegen den Hunger Germany website Azione contro la Fame Italy website Development charities based in France Hunger relief organizations International charities Organizations based in Paris Organizations established in 1979
A&W, AW, Aw, aW or aw may refer to: Companies A&W Restaurants A&W Root Beer A&W (Canada) Addison-Wesley, publishers Africa World Airlines, IATA code Prefix for helicopters made by AgustaWestland Allied Waste Industries, Inc, stock symbol on NYSE Armstrong Whitworth, a British manufacturing company Media and entertainment Accel World, a Japanese light novel series Active Worlds, a 3D virtual reality platform Another World (TV series), an American soap opera Aviation Week, magazine Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare, an action video game People A. H. Weiler (1908 – 2002), The New York Times film critic whose early reviews were signed with his initials A. W. A. W. (poet), anonymous 16th century poet Abraham Washington (A. W.), American professional wrestler and wrestling commentator Alan Walker (born 1997), English-Norwegian music producer and DJ Aw (father), honorific title in the Harari and Somali languages Aw (surname), a Cantonese surname John-Allison Weiss, an American singer-songwriter formerly known as A. W. Andy Warhol, a leading figure in the pop art movement. Places Ahrweiler (district), Germany, vehicle registration code Aruba (ISO 3166-1 2-letter country code AW) Science and technology .aw, the internet top level domain country code for Aruba Airwatt, a unit of the effectiveness of vacuum cleaners Aw, categorization for tropical savanna climate in the Köppen classification system AW, in German email subject line, equivalent to Re: aw, or attowatt, an SI unit of power aw, or water activity, the relative availability of water in a substance Other uses Agencja Wywiadu, the Polish foreign intelligence service Ahnapee and Western Railway, A&W Arctic Warfare, a sniper rifle Aviation Warfare Systems Operator, a rating in the United States Navy Aw, a digraph in Latin-script AW, US Navy hull classification symbol for "distilling ship" See also Av
Appomattox, shorthand for the surrender of Robert E. Lee to Ulysses S. Grant in the American Civil War, may refer to: Battle of Appomattox Court House, a battle of the American Civil War that was a culmination of the Appomattox Campaign and resulted in the surrender of Robert E. Lee Appomattox Court House National Historical Park, a National Historical Park in Virginia at the site of the surrender Appomattox may also refer to: Appomattox County, Virginia, in the United States Appomattox, Virginia, a town and the seat of that county Appomattox Court House (disambiguation), several courthouses in Appomattox, Virginia Appomattox River, a tributary of the James River in Virginia Appomattox Basin, a name for the Tri-Cities, Virginia region Appomattox Manor, a manor in City Point, Hopewell, Virginia Battle of Appomattox Station, a battle of the American Civil War in Appomattox, Virginia, a day before the Battle of Appomattox Court House SS Appomattox, a large American wooden steamship operated mainly on the Great Lakes SS Appomattox (1893), a British steamship of the early 20th century Appomattox (opera), a 2007 opera in based on the American Civil War, composed by Philip Glass Appomattox (statue), a bronze Confederate soldier memorial in Alexandria, Virginia See also Appomattoc (people)
Aba may refer to: Animals Aba roundleaf bat Gymnarchus (or aba), an electric fish People Clans Aba (family), in Hungary Aba people, in Russia In arts and entertainment Aba Bayefsky, Canadian artist and teacher Aba Cercato, Italian television presenter Vilmos Aba-Novák, a Hungarian painter Rulers Aba, ruler of Olba Samuel Aba, 11th-century Hungarian king Other people Aba I, patriarch of the Church of the East from 540 to 552 Aba II, patriarch of the Church of the East from 741 to 751 Aba Andam, Ghanaian physicist Johnny Aba (born 1956), a Papua New Guinean boxer Places Africa Aba, Nigeria Aba River (Nigeria) Aba Island, on Sudan's White Nile river Aba, Democratic Republic of the Congo Asia Aba (Russia), a river Aba, Okayama, Japan Aba Prefecture, Sichuan, China Aba County Aba, Sichuan Upu (also transliterated Aba), a historic region around Damascus Europe Aba, Hungary Religion and mythology Aba (mythology), Hellenic Thracian naiad nymph Anglican Province of Aba, Nigeria Roman Catholic Diocese of Aba, Nigeria Other uses Aba (Dune), a robe in the fictional Dune universe Aba (film), a 2008 Sri Lanka film Aba Women's War, period of unrest in colonial Nigeria A short form of Abaya, a middle eastern robe See also Abaá, a Fang longhouse Abba (disambiguation) Abas (disambiguation) Ab (Semitic), "father" in Semitic languages ABA (disambiguation)
The Ababda ( or ) are an Arab or Beja tribe in eastern Egypt and Sudan. Historically, most were Bedouins living in the area between the Nile and the Red Sea, with some settling along the trade route linking Korosko with Abu Hamad. Numerous traveler accounts from the nineteenth century report that some Ababda at that time still spoke Beja or a language of their own, hence many secondary sources consider the Ababda to be a Beja subtribe. Most Ababda now speak Arabic and identify as an Arab tribe from the Hijaz. The Ababda have a total population of over 250,000 people. Origin and history Ababda tribal origin narratives identify them as an Arab people from the Hijaz, descended from Zubayr ibn al-Awwam (possibly through his son Abd Allah ibn al-Zubayr) following the Muslim conquest of Egypt. Many published sources in Western languages identify the Ababda as a subtribe of the Beja, or as descendants of speakers of a Cushitic language. Language Arabic Today, virtually all Ababda communities speak Arabic. There is no oral tradition of having spoken any other language prior to Arabic, in keeping with Ababda Arab origin narratives. In a 1996 study, Rudolf de Jong found that the Ababda dialect of Arabic was quite similar to that of the Shukriya people of the Sudan, and concluded that it was an extension of the northern Sudanese dialect area. Alfred von Kremer reported in 1863 that the Ababda had developed an Arabic-based thieves' cant that only they understood. Ababda or Beja Language The Ababda may have spoken a dialect of Beja before Arabic, but if so, nothing of that dialect is preserved today. A distinct language being spoken by the Ababda has been reported by several early travellers, either identified as Beja or left without further description. In around 1770 the Scottish traveller James Bruce claimed that they spoke the "Barabra" language, Nubian. At the turn of the 19th century, during the French campaign in Egypt and Syria, the engineer Dubois-Aymé wrote that the Ababda understood Arabic, but still spoke a language of their own. In the 1820s Eduard Rüppell briefly stated that the Ababda spoke their own, seemingly non-Arabic language. A similar opinion was written by Pierre Trémaux after his journey in Sudan in the late 1840s. John Lewis Burckhardt reported that in 1813 those Ababda who co-resided with the Bishari tribe spoke Beja. Alfred von Kremer believed them to be native Beja-speakers and was told that the Ababda were bilingual in Arabic, which they spoke with a heavy accent. Those who resided with the Nubians spoke Kenzi. Robert Hartmann, who visited the country in 1859/60, noted that the vast majority of the Ababda now spoke Arabic. However, in the past they used to speak a Beja dialect that was now, as he was told, solely restricted to a few nomadic families roaming the Eastern Desert. He believed that they abandoned their language in favour of Arabic due to their close contact with other arabophone tribes. The Swedish linguist Herman Almkvist, writing in 1881, counted the Ababda to the Beja and noted that most had discarded the Beja language, supposedly identical to the Bishari dialect, in favour of Arabic, although "quite a lot" were still capable of understanding and even talking Beja. Bishari informants told him that in the past, the Bishari and Ababda were the same people. Joseph Russegger, who visited the country around 1840, noted that the Ababda spoke their own language, although he added that it was heavily mixed with Arabic. He believed it to be a "Nubian Bedouin" language and implied that this language, and the Ababda customs and appearance in general, is similar to that of the Bishari. Traveller Bayard Taylor wrote in 1856 that the Ababda spoke a language different from that of the Bishari, although it "probably sprang from the same original stock." The French Orientalist Eusebe de Salle concluded in 1840, after attending a Beja conversation between Ababda and Bishari, that both understood each other reasonably well, but that the Ababda "definitely" had a language of their own. The physician Carl Benjamin Klunzinger wrote in 1878 that the Ababda would always speak Arabic while conversing with strangers, avoiding to speak their own language which he thought was a mixture of Arabic and Beja. See also Zubayrids Beja people Halaib Triangle References External links African nomads Arabic-speaking people Cushitic-speaking peoples Modern nomads Blemmyes
The Hebrew term Abaddon ( ’Ăḇaddōn, meaning "destruction", "doom"), and its Greek equivalent Apollyon (, Apollúōn meaning "Destroyer") appear in the Bible as both a place of destruction and an angel of the abyss. In the Hebrew Bible, abaddon is used with reference to a bottomless pit, often appearing alongside the place Sheol ( Šəʾōl), meaning the resting place of dead peoples. In the Book of Revelation of the New Testament, an angel called Abaddon is described as the king of an army of locusts; his name is first transcribed in Koine Greek (Revelation 9:11—"whose name in Hebrew is Abaddon,") as , and then translated , Apollyon. The Vulgate and the Douay–Rheims Bible have additional notes not present in the Greek text, "in Latin Exterminans", exterminans being the Latin word for "destroyer". Etymology According to the Brown–Driver–Briggs lexicon, the ’ăḇadōn is an intensive form of the Semitic root and verb stem ’ăḇāḏ "perish", transitive "destroy", which occurs 184 times in the Hebrew Bible. The Septuagint, an early Greek translation of the Hebrew Bible, renders "Abaddon" as "ἀπώλεια" (𝘢𝘱𝘰́𝘭𝘦𝘪𝘢), while the Greek Apollýon is the active participle of ἀπόλλυμι apóllymi, "to destroy". Judaism Hebrew Bible The term abaddon appears six times in the Masoretic text of the Hebrew Bible; abaddon means destruction or "place of destruction", or the realm of the dead, and is accompanied by Sheol. Job 26:6: Sheol is naked before Him; Abaddon has no cover. Job 28:22: Abaddon and Death say, “We have only a report of it.” Job 31:12: A fire burning down to Abaddon, Consuming the roots of all my increase. Psalm 88:12: Is Your faithful care recounted in the grave, Your constancy in the place of perdition? Proverbs 15:11: Sheol and Abaddon lie exposed to the LORD, How much more the minds of men! Proverbs 27:20: Sheol and Abaddon cannot be satisfied, Nor can the eyes of man be satisfied. Second Temple era texts The Thanksgiving Hymns — a text found amongst the Dead Sea Scrolls in 1947 — tell of "the Sheol of Abaddon" and of the "torrents of Belial [that] burst into Abaddon". The Biblical Antiquities (misattributed to Philo) mention Abaddon as a place (destruction) rather than as an individual. Abaddon is also one of the compartments of Gehenna. By extension, the name can refer to an underworld abode of lost souls, or Gehenna. Rabbinical literature In some legends, Abaddon is identified as a realm where the damned lie in fire and snow, one of the places in Gehenna that Moses visited. Christianity The New Testament contains the first known depiction of Abaddon as an individual entity instead of a place. In the Old Testament, Abaddon and Death can be personified: And, And, And, The Hebrew text of Proverbs 6:32 does not contain the noun () but a participial form of the verb (). But the Septuagint uses (), the accusative case of the noun () with which it also translates in five of the six Hebrew verses that contain the word. (Though an English interlinear of the Septuagint might read "destruction the soul of him obtains", the reader should understand that "adulterer" is the subject, "soul" is the indirect object, and "destruction" is the direct object.) In Revelation 9:11, Abaddon is described as "Destroyer", the angel of the Abyss, and as the king of a plague of locusts resembling horses with crowned human faces, women's hair, lions' teeth, wings, iron breast-plates, and a tail with a scorpion's stinger that torments for five months anyone who does not have the seal of God on their foreheads. The symbolism of Revelation 9:11 leaves the identity of Abaddon open to interpretation. Protestant commentator Matthew Henry (1708) believed Abaddon to be the Antichrist, whereas the Jamieson-Fausset-Brown Bible Commentary (1871) and Henry Hampton Halley (1922) identified the angel as Satan. Early in John Bunyan's The Pilgrim's Progress the Christian pilgrim fights "over half a day" long with the demon Apollyon. This book permeated Christianity in the English-speaking world for 300 years after its first publication in 1678. In contrast, the Methodist publication The Interpreter's Bible states, "Abaddon, however, is an angel not of Satan but of God, performing his work of destruction at God's bidding", citing the context at Revelation chapter 20, verses 1 through 3. Jehovah's Witnesses also cite Revelation 20:1-3 where the angel having "the key of the abyss" is actually shown to be a representative of God, concluding that "Abaddon" is another name for Jesus after his resurrection. Mandaeism Mandaean scriptures such as the Ginza Rabba mention the Abaddons () as part of the World of Darkness. The Right Ginza mentions the existence of the "upper Abaddons" () as well as the "lower Abaddons" (). The final poem of the Left Ginza mentions the "House of the Abaddons" (). Apocryphal texts In the gnostic 3rd century Acts of Thomas, Abaddon is the name of a demon, or the devil himself. Abaddon is given particularly important roles in two sources, a homily entitled The Enthronement of Abaddon by pseudo-Timothy of Alexandria, and the Book of the Resurrection of Jesus Christ, by Bartholomew the Apostle. In the homily by Timothy, Abaddon was first named Muriel, and had been given the task by God of collecting the earth that would be used in the creation of Adam. Upon completion of this task, the angel was appointed as a guardian. Everyone, including the angels, demons, and corporeal entities feared him. Abaddon was promised that any who venerated him in life could be saved. Abaddon is also said to have a prominent role in the Last Judgment, as the one who will take the souls to the Valley of Josaphat. He is described in the Book of the Resurrection of Jesus Christ as being present in the Tomb of Jesus at the moment of the resurrection of Jesus. See also Abaddon in popular culture List of angels in theology Maalik Muriel (angel) Citations General bibliography External links Angels in Christianity Book of Revelation Hebrew Bible places Hell (Christianity) Individual angels Jewish underworld Satan
Abadeh (, also Romanized as Ābādeh) is a city in the Central District of Abadeh County, Fars province, Iran, serving as both capital of the district and of the county. At the 2006 National Census, its population was 52,042 in 14,184 households. The following census in 2011 counted 55,758 people in 16,546 households. The latest census in 2016 showed a population of 59,116 people in 18,965 households. Abadeh is at an elevation of in a fertile plain on the high road between Isfahan and Shiraz, from the former and from the latter. At the 2006 census, its population was 52,042, in 14,184 families. As of 2009, the population was estimated to be 59,042. It is the largest city in the Northern Fars Region (South Central-Iran), which is famed for its carved wood-work, made of the wood of pear and box trees. Sesame oil, castor oil, grain, and various fruits are also produced there. The area is famous for its Abadeh rugs. An interesting fact is that Abadeh is closer, road-distance-wise to 4 provincial capitals of Isfahan (193 km), Yasuj (197 km), Yazd (217 km), and Shahrekord (237 km) compared to the distance to the provincial capital of its corresponding province, Shiraz (260 km). History According to the texts of archaeologists, the settlement in the current area of Abadeh dates back to the first millennium BC. Nomadic Kurdish groups were the first to settle in the plain between Abadeh and Isfahan in the Achaemenid period. Remaining ancient monuments, such as the ancient castle of Izadkhas and Bahram Gur Palace in Surmaq, are proofs of the existence of culture and civilization in this geographical area. Abadeh city has a special position due to its location at the three-way communication between Isfahan, Yazd and Shiraz. Landmarks and crafts Abadeh historical monuments include Emirate Kolah Farangi, Tymcheh Sarafyan and Khaje tomb, located in the Khoja mountains. Abadeh crafts can be embroidered in cotton. The town also produces Abadeh rugs. The rugs tend to be based on a cotton warp and have a thin, tightly knotted pile. Most Abadeh rugs are closely cut making them very flat. Although some of the older Abadehs vary in style, many of the new designs are easily recognisable. These new designs, known as Heybatlu consist of a single diamond shaped medallion in the centre with smaller medallions on each corner. The pattern is typically geometrical flowers or animals and the main colours are light reds or burnt orange on top of a dark blue background with strong green details. The corners or borders are generally ivory in colour. Although some Abadeh and Shiraz rugs appear similar Abadeh can normally be differentiated by their higher knot counts as well as the fact that the warp is invariably cotton. The rugs are almost always exclusively medium in size and the KPSI of an average Abadeh is around 90. As always in the rug-world you get what you pay for however in general Abadeh are well made and fairly popular items, particularly in modern interiors or those with a Mediterranean or North African style. Geographical location Abadeh city is located in the northernmost point of Fars province. Abadeh is connected to Isfahan province from the north and west, Safacity and Eqlid from the south, and Yazd province from the east. The city is located north of Shiraz, south of Tehran, south of Isfahan, and southwest of Yazd. The geographical area of Abadeh is , which is about 11% of the total area of the province. Transportation Expressway 65 passes through Abadeh. This situation helps Abadeh to improve its capabilities compared to the neighboring city, Eqlid. Road 78 makes connections from Abadeh to Abarkuh, Yazd Eqlid and Yasuj. It has a junction with Abadeh Shiraz Expressway 24 km south of the city. A road starts from Abadeh Ring Road to Soqad and Semirom, Road 55. The railroad from Isfahan to Shiraz passes Abadeh and there are train services at Abadeh Railway Station to Shiraz, Esfahan, Tehran and Mashad. Abadeh Airport (OISA) was planned to be built in the mid 1990s. Universities Islamic Azad University, Abadeh branch Contemporary people Jalal Zolfonun was an Iranian musician Mahmoud Zoufonoun was an Iranian-born American musician accomplished in the art of Persian traditional music. Hooshmand Aghili is a prominent Iranian singer Ruhollah Hosseinian was an Iranian principalist politician. Rahmatollah Khosravi is an Iranian politician who was formerly a member of the Iranian Parliament and City Council of Tehran. Mojtaba Heidarpanah is an Iranian cartoonist, illustrator, painter, character designer and animator. Mahmoud Mohammadi (diplomat) is an Iranian diplomat and politician. Sport Abadeh's main sport is football, as in the rest of the country. The main stadium is Takhti Stadium located in Mo'allem Square. The main team in Abadeh is Behineh Rahbar Abadeh F.C. which is currently playing in Iran Football's 3rd Division after finishing first in Fars Provincial League (FPL) last year. It played in Hazfi Cup 2010-11 reaching the fourth round. Air defense base In 2012 Iran announced it had started the construction of an air defense site in the city of Abadeh. The site is planned to be the largest in the country and will house 6,000 personnel for a variety of duties, including educational ones. Geography Climate Abadeh features a continental semi-arid climate (Köppen climate classification BSk) with heat and dryness over summer, and cold (extreme at times) and wet winter, with huge variations between daytime and nighttime throughout the year. The area can experience severely cold weather due to its high elevation. Handicrafts Abadeh woodwork is world famous and its examples are kept in world museums as the best works of art. The carvings of the Marble Palace were made by the artists of this city, such as Master Ahmad Emami. In 2017, the World Council of Handicrafts (WCC) introduced Abadeh as the world city of carving. Monbat Abadeh has 150 active domestic or commercial carving workshops and 5000 carving artists. Mines The mines located in this city are: Esteghlal Abadeh large refractory soil mine is one of the largest producers of this mineral. In addition to the Esteghlal refractory mine, there is also an industrial mine around the city where the raw materials are from tile, ceramic and brick factories in the country. References Abadeh County Populated places in Abadeh County Cities in Fars Province
Abae (, ) was an ancient town in the northeastern corner of ancient Phocis, in Greece, near the frontiers of the Opuntian Locrians, said to have been built by the Argive Abas, son of Lynceus and Hypermnestra, and grandson of Danaus. This bit of legend suggests an origin or at least an existence in the Bronze Age. Its protohistory supports a continued existence in Iron-Age antiquity. It was famous for its oracle of Apollo Abaeus, one of those consulted by Croesus, king of Lydia, and Mardonius, among others. The site of the oracle was rediscovered at Kalapodi and excavated in modern times. The results confirm an archaeological existence dating from the Bronze Age, as is suggested by the lore. History Before the Persian invasion, the temple was richly adorned with treasuries and votive offerings. It was twice destroyed by fire; the first time by the Persians in the invasion of Xerxes in their march through Phocis (480 BCE), and a second time by the Boeotians in the Sacred or Phocian War in 346 BCE. It was rebuilt by Hadrian. Hadrian caused a smaller temple to be built near the ruins of the former one. In the new temple there were three ancient statues in brass of Apollo, Leto, and Artemis, which had been dedicated by the Abaei, and had perhaps been saved from the former temple. The ancient agora and the ancient theatre still existed in the town in the time of Pausanias. According to the statement of Aristotle, as preserved by Strabo, Thracians from the Phocian town of Abae immigrated to Euboea, and gave to the inhabitants the name of Abantes. Oracle Despite destruction of the town, the oracle was still consulted, e.g. by the Thebans before the Battle of Leuctra in 371 BCE. The temple, along with the village of the same name, may have escaped destruction during the Third Sacred War (355–346 BCE), due to the respect given to the inhabitants; however, it was in a very dilapidated state when seen by Pausanias in the 2nd century CE, though some restoration, as well as the building of a new temple, was undertaken by Emperor Hadrian. The sanctity of the shrine ensured certain privileges to the people of Abae, and these were confirmed by the Romans. The Persians did not reflect this opinion and would destroy all the temples that they overcame, Abae included. The Greeks pledged not to rebuild them as a memorial of the ravages of the Persians. Among the most exciting recent archaeological discoveries in Greece is the recognition that the sanctuary site near the modern village of Kalapodi is not only the site of the oracle of Apollon at Abae, but that it was in constant use for cult practices from early Mycenaean times to the Roman period. It is thus the first site where the archaeology confirms the continuity of Mycenaean and Classical Greek religion, which has been inferred from the presence of the names of Classical Greek divinities on Linear B texts from Pylos and Knossos. The fortified site described below, originally identified as Abae by Colonel William Leake in the 19th century, is much more likely to be that of the Sanctuary of Artemis at Hyampolis: "The polygonal walls of the acropolis may still be seen in a fair state of preservation on a circular hill standing about 500 ft. [150 m] above the little plain of Exarcho; one gateway remains, and there are also traces of town walls below. The temple site was on a low spur of the hill, below the town. An early terrace wall supports a precinct in which are a stoa and some remains of temples; these were excavated by the British School at Athens in 1894, but very little was found." The oracle was mentioned in Oedipus Rex. Attribution Notes References Reference bibliography External links German Archaeological Institute (German) 10-part documentary series (German) Excavation archive of the British School at Athens and French School at Athens (English and French) Ancient Greek cities Cities in ancient Greece Populated places in ancient Phocis Former populated places in Greece Classical oracles
Abakan (; Khakas: , Ağban, or , Abaxan) is the capital city of Khakassia, Russia, located in the central part of the Minusinsk Depression, at the confluence of the Yenisei and Abakan Rivers. As of the 2010 Census, it had a population of 165,214—a slight increase over 165,197 recorded during the 2002 Census and a further increase from 154,092 recorded during the 1989 Census. History Abakansky ostrog (), also known as Abakansk (), was built at the mouth of the Abakan River in 1675. In the 1780s, the selo of Ust-Abakanskoye () was established in this area. It was granted town status and given its current name on 30 April 1931. Chinese exiles In 1940, Russian construction workers found ancient ruins during the construction of a highway between Abakan and Askiz. When the site was excavated by Soviet archaeologists in 1941–1945, they realized that they had discovered a building absolutely unique for the area: a large (1500 square meters) Chinese-style, likely Han dynasty era (206 BC–220 AD) palace. The identity of the high-ranking personage who lived luxuriously in Chinese style, far outside the Han Empire's borders, has remained a matter for discussion ever since. Russian archaeologist surmised, based on circumstantial evidence, that the palace may have been the residence of Li Ling, a Chinese general who had been defeated by the Xiongnu in 99 BCE, and defected to them as a result. While this opinion has remained popular, other views have been expressed as well. More recently, for example, it was claimed by as the residence of Lu Fang (盧芳), a Han throne pretender from the Guangwu era. Lithuanian exiles In the late 18th and during the 19th century, Lithuanian participants in the 1794, 1830–1831, and 1863 rebellions against Russian rule were exiled to Abakan. A group of camps was established where prisoners were forced to work in the coal mines. After Stalin's death, Lithuanian exiles from the nearby settlements moved in. Administrative and municipal status Abakan is the capital of the republic. Within the framework of administrative divisions, it is incorporated as the City of Abakan—an administrative unit with the status equal to that of the districts As a municipal division, the City of Abakan is incorporated as Abakan Urban Okrug. Economy The city has an industry enterprises, Katanov State University of Khakasia, and three theatres. Furthermore, it has a commercial center that produces footwear, foodstuffs, and metal products. Transportation Abakan (together with Tayshet) was a terminal of the major Abakan-Taishet Railway. Now it is an important railway junction. The city is served by the Abakan International Airport. Military The 100th Air Assault Brigade of the Russian Airborne Troops was based in the city until circa 1996. Sites Abakan's sites of interest include: Holy Transfiguration Cathedral (Russian: Спасо-Преображенский кафедральный собор (Spaso-Preobrazhenskiy kafedral’nyy sobor)) "Good Angel of Peace" sculpture (Russian: Скульптура «Добрый ангел мира» (Skul’ptura «Dobryy angel mira»)) Park of Topiary Art (Russian: Парк топиарного искусства (Park Topiarnogo Iskusstva)) Khakas National local history museum named after Leonid Kyzlasov (Russian: Хакасский краеведческий музей имени Л.Р. Кызласова (Khakasskiy Natsional'nyy Krayevedcheskiy Muzey Im. L.R. Kyzlasova)) Sports Bandy, similar to hockey, is one of the most popular sports in the city. Sayany-Khakassia was playing in the top-tier Super League in the 2012–13 season but was relegated for the 2013–14 season and has been playing in the Russian Bandy Supreme League ever since. Russian Government Cup was played here in 1988 and in 2012. Geography Climate Abakan has a borderline humid continental (Köppen climate classification Dwb)/cold semi-arid climate (Köppen BSk). Temperature differences between seasons are extreme, which is typical for Siberia. Precipitation is concentrated in the summer and is less common because of rain shadows from nearby mountains. Local government The structure of the local government in the city of Abakan is as follows: council of deputies of the city of Abakan - a representative body of the municipality; the head of the city of Abakan - the head of the municipality; the administration of the city of Abakan - the executive and administrative body of the municipality; auditing commission of the municipality of the city of Abakan - the control and accounting body of the municipality. Council of Deputies The council consists of 28 deputies. Deputies are elected in single-member constituencies and on party lists. Elections of deputies of the VI convocation were held on a single voting day in 2018. Head of the city (head of the municipality) Alexey Viktorovich Lyomin Chairman of the Council of Deputies Albert Yuryevich Tupikin Nikolai Bulakin Prize In 2021, the annual Nikolai Bulakin Prize of Abakan was established for outstanding services and achievements in the city's development. The award includes a monetary reward of 200,000 rubles and a diploma. References Notes Sources External links Official website of Abakan Unofficial website of Abakan Directory of organizations in Abakan Abakan city streets views Beyaz Arif Akbas, "Khakassia: The Lost Land", Portland State Center for Turkish Studies, 2007 Cities and towns in Khakassia Yeniseysk Governorate Populated places established in 1675 1675 establishments in Russia Populated places on the Yenisei River
ATM or atm often refers to: Atmosphere (unit) or atm, a unit of atmospheric pressure Automated teller machine, a cash dispenser or cash machine ATM or atm may also refer to: Computing ATM (computer), a ZX Spectrum clone developed in Moscow in 1991 Adobe Type Manager, a computer program for managing fonts Accelerated Turing machine, or Zeno machine, a model of computation used in theoretical computer science Alternating Turing machine, a model of computation used in theoretical computer science Asynchronous Transfer Mode, a telecommunications protocol used in networking ATM adaptation layer ATM Adaptation Layer 5 Media Amateur Telescope Making, a series of books by Albert Graham Ingalls ATM (2012 film), an American film ATM: Er Rak Error, a 2012 Thai film Azhagiya Tamil Magan, a 2007 Indian film "ATM" (song), a 2018 song by J. Cole from KOD People and organizations Abiding Truth Ministries, anti-LGBT organization in Springfield, Massachusetts, US Association of Teachers of Mathematics, UK Acrylic Tank Manufacturing, US aquarium manufacturer, televised in Tanked ATM FA, a football club in Malaysia A. T. M. Wilson (1906–1978), British psychiatrist African Transformation Movement, South African political party founded in 2018 The a2 Milk Company (NZX ticker symbol ATM) Science Apollo Telescope Mount, a solar observatory ATM serine/threonine kinase, a serine/threonine kinase activated by DNA damage The Airborne Topographic Mapper, a laser altimeter among the instruments used by NASA's Operation IceBridge Transportation Active traffic management, a motorway scheme on the M42 in England Air traffic management, a concept in aviation Altamira Airport, in Brazil (IATA code ATM) Azienda Trasporti Milanesi, the municipal public transport company of Milan Airlines of Tasmania (ICAO code ATM) Catalonia, Spain Autoritat del Transport Metropolità (ATM Àrea de Barcelona), in the Barcelona metropolitan area Autoritat Territorial de la Mobilitat del Camp de Tarragona (ATM Camp de Tarragona), in the Camp de Tarragona area Autoritat Territorial de la Mobilitat de l'Àrea de Girona (ATM Àrea de Girona), in the Girona area Autoritat Territorial de la Mobilitat de l'Àrea de Lleida (ATM Àrea de Lleida), in the Lleida area Other uses Actun Tunichil Muknal, a cave in Belize Anti-tank missile, a missile designed to destroy tanks Ass to mouth, a sexual act At the money, moneyness where the strike price is the same as the current spot price At-the-market offering, a type of follow-on offering of stock Automatenmarken, a variable value stamp Contracted form of Atlético Madrid, football club in Spain Common abbreviation in SMS language for "at the moment"
Amazonite, also known as Amazonstone, is a green tectosilicate mineral, a variety of the potassium feldspar called microcline. Its chemical formula is KAlSi3O8, which is polymorphic to orthoclase. Its name is taken from that of the Amazon River, from which green stones were formerly obtained, though it is unknown whether those stones were amazonite. Although it has been used for jewellery for well over three thousand years, as attested by archaeological finds in Middle and New Kingdom Egypt and Mesopotamia, no ancient or medieval authority mentions it. It was first described as a distinct mineral only in the 18th century. Green and greenish-blue varieties of potassium feldspars that are predominantly triclinic are designated as amazonite. It has been described as a "beautiful crystallized variety of a bright verdigris-green" and as possessing a "lively green colour." It is occasionally cut and used as a gemstone. Occurrence Amazonite is a mineral of limited occurrence. In Bronze Age Egypt, it was mined in the southern Eastern Desert at Gebel Migif. In early modern times, it was obtained almost exclusively from the area of Miass in the Ilmensky Mountains, southwest of Chelyabinsk, Russia, where it occurs in granitic rocks. Amazonite is now known to occur in various places around the globe. Those places are, among others, as follows: Australia: Eyre Peninsula, Koppio, Baila Hill Mine (Koppio Amazonite Mine) China: Baishitouquan granite intrusion, Hami Prefecture, Xinjiang: found in granite Libya: Jabal Eghei, Tibesti Mountains: found in granitic rocks Mongolia: Avdar Massif, Töv Province: found in alkali granite South Africa: Mogalakwena, Limpopo Province Khâi-Ma, Northern Cape Kakamas, Northern Cape Ceres Valley, Western Cape Sweden: Skuleboda mine, Västra Götaland County: found in pegmatite United States: Colorado: Deer Trail, Arapahoe County:233 Custer County:234 Devils Head, Douglas County:234 Pine Creek, Douglas County:234 Crystal Park, El Paso County:234 Pikes Peak, El Paso County: found in coarse granites or pegmatite St. Peter's Dome, El Paso County:234 Tarryall Mountains, Park County:235 Crystal Peak, Teller County:235 Virginia: Morefield Mine, Amelia County: found in pegmatite Rutherford Mine, Amelia County Pennsylvania: Media, Delaware County:244 Middletown, Delaware County:244 Color For many years, the source of amazonite's color was a mystery. Some people assumed the color was due to copper because copper compounds often have blue and green colors. A 1985 study suggests that the blue-green color results from quantities of lead and water in the feldspar. Subsequent 1998 theoretical studies by A. Julg expand on the potential role of aliovalent lead in the color of microcline. Other studies suggest the colors are associated with the increasing content of lead, rubidium, and thallium ranging in amounts between 0.00X and 0.0X in the feldspars, with even extremely high contents of PbO, lead monoxide, (1% or more) known from the literature. A 2010 study also implicated the role of divalent iron in the green coloration. These studies and associated hypotheses indicate the complex nature of the color in amazonite; in other words, the color may be the aggregate effect of several mutually inclusive and necessary factors. Health A 2021 study by the German Institut für Edelsteinprüfung (EPI) found that the amount of lead that leaked from an sample of Amazonite into an acidic solution simulating saliva exceeded European Union standard DIN EN 71-3:2013's recommended amount by five times. This experiment was to simulate a child swallowing Amazonite, and could also apply to new wellness practices such as inserting the mineral into oils or drinking water for days. Gallery References Further reading External links Feldspar Gemstones
Ambrosius Bosschaert the Elder (18 January 1573 – 1621) was a Flemish-born Dutch still life painter and art dealer. He is recognised as one of the earliest painters who created floral still lifes as an independent genre. He founded a dynasty of painters who continued his style of floral and fruit painting and turned Middelburg into the leading centre for flower painting in the Dutch Republic. Biography He was born in Antwerp, where he started his career, but he spent most of it in Middelburg (1587–1613), where he moved with his family because of the threat of religious persecution. He specialized in painting still lifes with flowers, which he signed with the monogram AB (the B in the A). At the age of twenty-one, he joined the city's Guild of Saint Luke and later became dean. Not long after, Bosschaert married and established himself as a leading figure in the fashionable floral painting genre. He had three sons who all became flower painters: Ambrosius II, Johannes and Abraham. His brother-in-law Balthasar van der Ast also lived and worked in his workshop and accompanied him on his travels. Bosschaert later worked in Amsterdam (1614), Bergen op Zoom (1615–1616), Utrecht (1616–1619), and Breda (1619). In 1619 when he moved to Utrecht, his brother-in-law van der Ast entered the Utrecht Guild of St. Luke, where the renowned painter Abraham Bloemaert had just become dean. The painter Roelandt Savery (1576–1639) entered the St. Luke's guild in Utrecht at about the same time. Savery had considerable influence on the Bosschaert dynasty. After Bosschaert died in The Hague while on commission there for a flower piece, Balthasar van der Ast took over his workshop and pupils in Middelburg. Style His bouquets were painted symmetrically and with scientific accuracy in small dimensions and normally on copper. They sometimes included symbolic and religious meanings. At the time of his death, Bosschaert was working on an important commission in the Hague. That piece is now in the collection in Stockholm. Bosschaert was one of the first artists to specialize in flower still life painting as a stand-alone subject. He started a tradition of painting detailed flower bouquets, which typically included tulips and roses, and inspired the genre of Dutch flower painting. Thanks to the booming seventeenth-century Dutch art market, he became highly successful, as the inscription on one of his paintings attests. His works commanded high prices although he never achieved the level of prestige of Jan Brueghel the Elder, the Antwerp master who contributed to the floral genre. Legacy His sons and his pupil and brother-in-law, Balthasar van der Ast, were among those to uphold the Bosschaert dynasty which continued until the mid-17th century. It may not be a coincidence that this trend coincided with a national obsession with exotic flowers which made flower portraits highly sought after. Although he was highly in demand, he did not create many pieces because he was also employed as an art dealer. References Bibliography External links 1573 births 1621 deaths Flemish Baroque painters Flower artists Dutch Golden Age painters Dutch male painters Painters from Antwerp Painters from Middelburg Dutch still life painters Flemish still life painters
The anus (: anuses or ani; from Latin, 'ring' or 'circle') is an opening at the opposite end of an animal's digestive tract from the mouth. Its function is to control the expulsion of feces, the residual semi-solid waste that remains after food digestion, which, depending on the type of animal, includes: matter which the animal cannot digest, such as bones; food material after the nutrients have been extracted, for example cellulose or lignin; ingested matter which would be toxic if it remained in the digestive tract; and dead or excess gut bacteria and other endosymbionts. Amphibians, reptiles, and birds use the same orifice (known as the cloaca) for excreting liquid and solid wastes, for copulation and egg-laying. Monotreme mammals also have a cloaca, which is thought to be a feature inherited from the earliest amniotes via the therapsids. Marsupials have a single orifice for excreting both solids and liquids and, in females, a separate vagina for reproduction. Female placental mammals have completely separate orifices for defecation, urination, and reproduction; males have one opening for defecation and another for both urination and reproduction, although the channels flowing to that orifice are almost completely separate. The development of the anus was an important stage in the evolution of multicellular animals. It appears to have happened at least twice, following different paths in protostomes and deuterostomes. This accompanied or facilitated other important evolutionary developments: the bilaterian body plan, the coelom, and metamerism, in which the body was built of repeated "modules" which could later specialize, such as the heads of most arthropods, which are composed of fused, specialized segments. In comb jellies there are species with one and sometimes two permanent anuses, species like the warty comb jelly grows an anus which then disappear when it's no longer needed. Development In animals at least as complex as an earthworm, the embryo forms a dent on one side, the blastopore, which deepens to become the archenteron, the first phase in the growth of the gut. In deuterostomes, the original dent becomes the anus while the gut eventually tunnels through to make another opening, which forms the mouth. The protostomes were so named because it was thought that in their embryos the dent formed the mouth first (proto– meaning "first") and the anus was formed later at the opening made by the other end of the gut. Research from 2001 shows the edges of the dent close up in the middles of protosomes, leaving openings at the ends which become the mouths and anuses. See also References External links Digestive system
Appendix (: appendices) may refer to: In documents Addendum, an addition made to a document by its author after its initial printing or publication Bibliography, a systematic list of books and other works Index (publishing), a list of words or phrases with pointers to where related material can be found in a document Anatomy Appendix (anatomy), a part of the human digestive system Arts and media Appendix (band), a Finnish punk rock group The Appendix, a quarterly journal of history and culture
The Acantharea (Acantharia) are a group of radiolarian protozoa, distinguished mainly by their strontium sulfate skeletons. Acantharians are heterotrophic marine microplankton that range in size from about 200 microns in diameter up to several millimeters. Some acantharians have photosynthetic endosymbionts and hence are considered mixotrophs. Morphology Acantharian skeletons are composed of strontium sulfate, SrSO4, in the form of mineral celestine crystal. Celestine is named for the delicate blue colour of its crystals, and is the heaviest mineral in the ocean. The denseness of their celestite ensures acantharian shells function as mineral ballast, resulting in fast sedimentation to bathypelagic depths. High settling fluxes of acantharian cysts have been observed at times in the Iceland Basin and the Southern Ocean, as much as half of the total gravitational organic carbon flux. Acantharian skeletons are composed of strontium sulfate crystals secreted by vacuoles surrounding each spicule or spine. Acantharians are unique among marine organisms for their ability to biomineralize strontium sulfate as the main component of their skeletons. However, unlike other radiolarians whose skeletons are made of silica, acantharian skeletons do not fossilize, primarily because strontium sulfate is very scarce in seawater and the crystals dissolve after the acantharians die. The arrangement of the spines is very precise, and is described by what is called the Müllerian law, which can be described in terms of lines of latitude and longitude – the spines lie on the intersections between five of the former, symmetric about an equator, and eight of the latter, spaced uniformly. Each line of longitude carries either two tropical spines or one equatorial and two polar spines, in alternation. The cell cytoplasm is divided into two regions: the endoplasm and the ectoplasm. The endoplasm, at the core of the cell, contains the main organelles, including many nuclei, and is delineated from the ectoplasm by a capsular wall made of a microfibril mesh. In symbiotic species, the algal symbionts are maintained in the endoplasm. The ectoplasm consists of cytoplasmic extensions used for prey capture and also contains food vacuoles for prey digestion. The ectoplasm is surrounded by a periplasmic cortex, also made up of microfibrils, but arranged into twenty plates, each with a hole through which one spicule projects. The cortex is linked to the spines by contractile myonemes, which assist in buoyancy control by allowing the ectoplasm to expand and contract, increasing and decreasing the total volume of the cell. Taxonomy The way that the spines are joined at the center of the cell varies and is one of the primary characteristics by which acantharians are classified. The skeletons are made up of either ten diametric or twenty radial spicules. Diametric spicules cross the center of the cell, whereas radial spicules terminate at the center of the cell where they either form a tight or flexible junction depending on species. Acantharians with diametric spicules or loosely attached radial spicules are able to rearrange or shed spicules and form cysts. Holacanthida – 10 diametric spicules, simply crossed, no central junction, capable of encystment Chaunacanthida – 20 radial spicules, loosely attached, capable of encystment Symphiacanthida – 20 radial spicules, tight central junction Arthracanthida – 20 radial spines, tight central junction The morphological classification system roughly agrees with phylogenetic trees based on the alignment of ribosomal RNA genes, although the groups are mostly polyphyletic. Holacanthida seems to have evolved first and includes molecular clades A, B, and D. Chaunacanthida evolved second and includes only one molecular clade, clade C. Arthracanthida and Symphacanthida, which have the most complex skeletons, evolved most recently and constitute molecular clades E and F. Symbiosis Many acantharians, including some in clade B (Holacanthida) and all in clades E & F (Symphiacanthida and Arthracanthida), host single-celled algae within their inner cytoplasm (endoplasm). By participating in this photosymbiosis, acantharians are essentially mixotrophs: they acquire energy through both heterotrophy and autotrophy. The relationship may make it possible for acantharians to be abundant in low-nutrient regions of the oceans and may also provide extra energy necessary to maintain their elaborate strontium sulfate skeletons. It is hypothesized that the acantharians provide the algae with nutrients (N & P) that they acquire by capturing and digesting prey in return for sugar that the algae produces during photosynthesis. It is not known, however, whether the algal symbionts benefit from the relationship or if they are simply being exploited and then digested by the acantharians. Symbiotic Holacanthida acantharians host diverse symbiont assemblages, including several genera of dinoflagellates (Pelagodinium, Heterocapsa, Scrippsiella, Azadinium) and a haptophyte (Chrysochromulina). Clade E & F acantharians have a more specific symbiosis and primarily host symbionts from the haptophyte genus Phaeocystis, although they sometimes also host Chrysochromulina symbionts. Clade F acantharians simultaneously host multiple species and strains of Phaeocystis and their internal symbiont community does not necessarily match the relative availability of potential symbionts in the surrounding environment. The mismatch between internal and external symbiont communities suggests that acantharians can be selective in choosing symbionts and probably do not continuously digest and recruit new symbionts, and maintain symbionts for extended periods of time instead. Life cycle Adults are usually multinucleated. Earlier diverging clades are able to shed their spines and form cysts, which are often referred to as reproductive cysts. Reproduction is thought to take place by formation of swarmer cells (formerly referred to as "spores"), which may be flagellate, and cysts have been observed to release these swarmers. Non-encysted cells have also been seen releasing swarmers in laboratory conditions. Not all life cycle stages have been observed, however, and no one has witnessed the fusion of swarmers to produce a new acantharian. Cysts are often found in sediment traps and it is therefore believed that the cysts help acantharians sink into deep water. Genetic data and some imaging suggests that non-cyst-forming acantharians may also sink to deep water to release swarmers. Releasing swarmer cells in deeper water may improve the survival chances of juveniles. Study of these organisms has been hampered mainly by an inability to "close the lifecycle" and maintain these organisms in culture through successive generations. References
In telecommunications, asynchronous communication is transmission of data, generally without the use of an external clock signal, where data can be transmitted intermittently rather than in a steady stream. Any timing required to recover data from the communication symbols is encoded within the symbols. The most significant aspect of asynchronous communications is that data is not transmitted at regular intervals, thus making possible variable bit rate, and that the transmitter and receiver clock generators do not have to be exactly synchronized all the time. In asynchronous transmission, data is sent one byte at a time and each byte is preceded by start and stop bits. Physical layer In asynchronous serial communication in the physical protocol layer, the data blocks are code words of a certain word length, for example octets (bytes) or ASCII characters, delimited by start bits and stop bits. A variable length space can be inserted between the code words. No bit synchronization signal is required. This is sometimes called character oriented communication. Examples include MNP2 and modems older than V.2. Data link layer and higher Asynchronous communication at the data link layer or higher protocol layers is known as statistical multiplexing, for example Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM). In this case, the asynchronously transferred blocks are called data packets, for example ATM cells. The opposite is circuit switched communication, which provides constant bit rate, for example ISDN and SONET/SDH. The packets may be encapsulated in a data frame, with a frame synchronization bit sequence indicating the start of the frame, and sometimes also a bit synchronization bit sequence, typically 01010101, for identification of the bit transition times. Note that at the physical layer, this is considered as synchronous serial communication. Examples of packet mode data link protocols that can be/are transferred using synchronous serial communication are the HDLC, Ethernet, PPP and USB protocols. Application layer An asynchronous communication service or application does not require a constant bit rate. Examples are file transfer, email and the World Wide Web. An example of the opposite, a synchronous communication service, is realtime streaming media, for example IP telephony, IPTV and video conferencing. Electronically mediated communication Electronically mediated communication often happens asynchronously in that the participants do not communicate concurrently. Examples include email and bulletin-board systems, where participants send or post messages at different times than they read them. The term "asynchronous communication" acquired currency in the field of online learning, where teachers and students often exchange information asynchronously instead of synchronously (that is, simultaneously), as they would in face-to-face or in telephone conversations. See also Synchronization in telecommunications Asynchronous serial communication Asynchronous system Asynchronous circuit Anisochronous Baud rate Plesiochronous Plesiochronous Digital Hierarchy (PDH) References Synchronization Telecommunications techniques
Agostino Carracci (or Caracci; 16 August 1557 – 22 March 1602) was an Italian painter, printmaker, tapestry designer, and art teacher. He was, together with his brother, Annibale Carracci, and cousin, Ludovico Carracci, one of the founders of the Accademia degli Incamminati (Academy of the Progressives) in Bologna. This teaching academy promoted the Carracci emphasized drawing from life. It promoted progressive tendencies in art and was a reaction to the Mannerist distortion of anatomy and space. The academy helped propel painters of the School of Bologna to prominence. Life Agostino Carracci was born in Bologna as the son of a tailor. He was the elder brother of Annibale Carracci and the cousin of Ludovico Carracci. He initially trained as a goldsmith. He later studied painting, first with Prospero Fontana, who had been Lodovico's master, and later with Bartolomeo Passarotti. He traveled to Parma to study the works of Correggio. Accompanied by his brother Annibale, he spent a long time in Venice, where he trained as an engraver under the renowned Cornelis Cort. Starting from 1574 he worked as a reproductive engraver, copying works of 16th century masters such as Federico Barocci, Tintoretto, Antonio Campi, Veronese and Correggio. He also produced some original prints, including two etchings. He traveled to Venice (1582, 1587–1589) and Parma (1586–1587). Together with Annibale and Ludovico he worked in Bologna on the fresco cycles in Palazzo Fava (Histories of Jason and Medea, 1584) and Palazzo Magnani (Histories of Romulus, 1590–1592). In 1592 he also painted the Communion of St. Jerome, now in the Pinacoteca di Bologna and considered his masterwork. In 1620, Giovanni Lanfranco, a pupil of the Carracci, famously accused another Carracci student, Domenichino, of plagiarizing this painting. From 1586 is his altarpiece of the Madonna with Child and Saints, in the National Gallery of Parma. In 1598 Carracci joined his brother Annibale in Rome, to collaborate on the decoration of the Gallery in Palazzo Farnese. From 1598 to 1600 is a triple Portrait, now in Naples, an example of genre painting. In 1600 he was called to Parma by Duke Ranuccio I Farnese to begin the decoration of the Palazzo del Giardino, but he died before it was finished. His friend the poet Claudio Achillini dedicated to him an epitaph after his death, later published by Carlo Cesare Malvasia in the life of the Carracci. Agostino's son Antonio Carracci was also a painter, and attempted to compete with his father's Academy. An engraving by Agostino Carraci after the painting Love in the Golden Age by the 16th-century Flemish painter Paolo Fiammingo was the inspiration for Matisse's Le bonheur de vivre (Joy of Life). Works Oil on canvas unless otherwise noted 1573 – Pietà (Muscarelle Museum of Art, Williamsburg, Virginia) 1586 – Madonna and Child with Saints (Galleria nazionale di Parma) – Lamentation or Pietà (Hermitage, St. Petersburg) – (engraving, Baltimore Museum of Art) – Annunciation (Musée du Louvre, Paris) 1590–1595 – Portrait of a Woman as Judith (private collection) – Assumption (Ss. Salvatore church, Bologna) 1592–1597 – The Last Communion of Saint Jerome (Pinacoteca Nazionale di Bologna) – Head of a Faun in a Concave (drawing in roundel, National Gallery of Art, Washington DC) 1598–1600 – Triple Portrait of Arrigo, Pietro and Amon (National Museum of Capodimonte, Naples) Fresco collaborations with Annibale and Ludovico Life of Aeneas (Palazzo Fava, Bologna) Lives of Jason and Medea (Palazzo Fava, Bologna) Scenes from the Foundation of Rome (Palazzo Magnani, Bologna) Life of Hercules (Palazzo Sampieri Talon, Bologna) Undated The Penitent Magdalen (private collection) Carracci's erotic work (prints) See also The Carracci References External links 1557 births 1602 deaths 16th-century Italian painters Italian male painters 17th-century Italian painters Italian Baroque painters Painters from Bologna Italian printmakers Italian erotic artists Italian Roman Catholics Sibling artists Catholic painters Catholic decorative artists
Articolo 31 is a band from Milan, Italy, formed in 1990 by J-Ax and DJ Jad, combining hip hop, funk, pop and traditional Italian musical forms. They are one of the most popular Italian hip hop groups. Band history Articolo 31 were formed by rapper J-Ax (real name Alessandro Aleotti) and DJ Jad (Vito Luca Perrini). In the spoken intro of the album Strade di Città ("City Streets"), it is stated that the band is named after the article of the Irish constitution guaranteeing freedom of the press, although article 31 of the Irish constitution is not about the freedom of the press. They probably meant the Section 31 of the Broadcasting Authority Act. Articolo 31 released one of the first Italian hip hop records, Strade di città, in 1993. Soon, they signed with BMG Ricordi and started to mix rap with pop music – a move that earned them great commercial success but that alienated the underground hip hop scene, who perceived them as traitors. In 1997, DJ Gruff dissed Articolo 31 in a track titled 1 vs 2 on the first album of the beatmaker Fritz da Cat, starting a feud that would go on for years. In 2001, Articolo 31 collaborated with the American old school rapper Kurtis Blow on the album XChé SI!. In the same year, they made the film Senza filtro (in English, "Without filter"). Their producer was Franco Godi, who also produced the music for the Signor Rossi animated series. Their 2002 album Domani smetto represented a further departure from hip hop, increasingly relying on the formula of rapping over pop music samples. Several of their songs rotate around the theme of soft drugs legalization in Italy (pointing strongly in favour). Following their 2003 album "Italiano medio", the band took a break. Both J-Ax and DJ Jad have been involved with solo projects. In 2006, the group declared an indefinite hiatus. Their posse, Spaghetti Funk, includes other popular performers like Space One and pop rappers Gemelli DiVersi. On 4 December 2022, it was officially announced Articolo 31 participation in the Sanremo Music Festival 2023. "Un bel viaggio" was later announced as their entry for the Sanremo Music Festival 2023. Band members J-Ax - vocals DJ Jad - turntables Discography References Italian hip hop groups Musical groups from Milan Hip hop groups from Milan Italian rappers Italian rap rock groups
Astronomical year numbering is based on AD/CE year numbering, but follows normal decimal integer numbering more strictly. Thus, it has a year 0; the years before that are designated with negative numbers and the years after that are designated with positive numbers. Astronomers use the Julian calendar for years before 1582, including the year 0, and the Gregorian calendar for years after 1582, as exemplified by Jacques Cassini (1740), Simon Newcomb (1898) and Fred Espenak (2007). The prefix AD and the suffixes CE, BC or BCE (Common Era, Before Christ or Before Common Era) are dropped. The year 1 BC/BCE is numbered 0, the year 2 BC is numbered −1, and in general the year n BC/BCE is numbered "−(n − 1)" (a negative number equal to 1 − n). The numbers of AD/CE years are not changed and are written with either no sign or a positive sign; thus in general n AD/CE is simply n or +n. For normal calculation a number zero is often needed, here most notably when calculating the number of years in a period that spans the epoch; the end years need only be subtracted from each other. The system is so named due to its use in astronomy. Few other disciplines outside history deal with the time before year 1, some exceptions being dendrochronology, archaeology and geology, the latter two of which use 'years before the present'. Although the absolute numerical values of astronomical and historical years only differ by one before year 1, this difference is critical when calculating astronomical events like eclipses or planetary conjunctions to determine when historical events which mention them occurred. Usage of the year zero In his Rudolphine Tables (1627), Johannes Kepler used a prototype of year zero which he labeled Christi (Christ's) between years labeled Ante Christum (Before Christ) and Post Christum (After Christ) on the mean motion tables for the Sun, Moon, Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Venus and Mercury. In 1702, the French astronomer Philippe de la Hire used a year he labeled at the end of years labeled ante Christum (BC), and immediately before years labeled post Christum (AD) on the mean motion pages in his Tabulæ Astronomicæ, thus adding the designation 0 to Kepler's Christi. Finally, in 1740 the French astronomer Jacques Cassini , who is traditionally credited with the invention of year zero, completed the transition in his Tables astronomiques, simply labeling this year 0, which he placed at the end of Julian years labeled avant Jesus-Christ (before Jesus Christ or BC), and immediately before Julian years labeled après Jesus-Christ (after Jesus Christ or AD). Cassini gave the following reasons for using a year 0: Fred Espenak of NASA lists 50 phases of the Moon within year 0, showing that it is a full year, not an instant in time. Jean Meeus gives the following explanation: Signed years without the year zero Although he used the usual French terms "avant J.-C." (before Jesus Christ) and "après J.-C." (after Jesus Christ) to label years elsewhere in his book, the Byzantine historian Venance Grumel (1890–1967) used negative years (identified by a minus sign, −) to label BC years and unsigned positive years to label AD years in a table. He may have done so to save space and he put no year 0 between them. Version 1.0 of the XML Schema language, often used to describe data interchanged between computers in XML, includes built-in primitive datatypes date and dateTime. Although these are defined in terms of ISO 8601 which uses the proleptic Gregorian calendar and therefore should include a year 0, the XML Schema specification states that there is no year zero. Version 1.1 of the defining recommendation realigned the specification with ISO 8601 by including a year zero, despite the problems arising from the lack of backward compatibility. See also Julian day, another calendar commonly used by astronomers Astronomical chronology Holocene calendar ISO 8601 References Calendar eras Chronology Specific calendars Year numbering
Adam of Bremen (; ; before 1050 – 12 October 1081/1085) was a German medieval chronicler. He lived and worked in the second half of the eleventh century. Adam is most famous for his chronicle Gesta Hammaburgensis ecclesiae pontificum (Deeds of Bishops of the Hamburg Church). He was "one of the foremost historians and early ethnographers of the medieval period". In his chronicle, he included a chapter mentioning the Norse outpost of Vinland, and was thus the first continental European to write about the New World. Life Little is known of his life other than hints from his own chronicles. He is believed to have come from Meissen, then its own margravate. The dates of his birth and death are uncertain, but he was probably born before 1050 and died on 12 October of an unknown year (possibly 1081, at the latest 1085). From his chronicles, it is apparent that he was familiar with a number of authors. The honorary name of Magister Adam shows that he had passed through all the stages of a higher education. It is probable that he was taught at the Magdeburger Domschule. In 1066 or 1067, he was invited by Archbishop Adalbert von Hamburg-Bremen to join the Church of Bremen. Adam was accepted among the capitulars of Bremen, and by 1069 he appeared as director of the Bremen Cathedral's school. Soon thereafter he began to write the history of Bremen/Hamburg and of the northern lands in his Gesta. His position and the missionary activity of the church of Bremen allowed him to gather information on the history and the geography of Northern Germany. A stay at the court of Sweyn II of Denmark gave him the opportunity to find information about the history and geography of Denmark and the other Scandinavian countries. Among other things he wrote about in Scandinavia were the sailing passages across Øresund such as today's Helsingør–Helsingborg ferry route. References Further reading Chłopacka Hanna: Adam Bremeński. In: Słownik Starożytności Słowiańskich. Vol. 1. 1961, p. 3-4. External links Adamus Bremensis: Gesta Hammaburgensis ecclesiae pontificum (Lat.) 11th-century German historians 11th-century writers in Latin 11th-century births 1080s deaths Year of birth unknown Year of death uncertain Chroniclers from the Holy Roman Empire History of Bremen (city) History of Hamburg People from Meissen History of Uppsala
Ab urbe condita (; 'from the founding of the City'), or (; 'in the year since the city's founding'), abbreviated as AUC or AVC, expresses a date in years since 753 BC, the traditional founding of Rome. It is an expression used in antiquity and by classical historians to refer to a given year in Ancient Rome. In reference to the traditional year of the foundation of Rome, the year 1 BC would be written AUC 753, whereas AD 1 would be AUC 754. The foundation of the Roman Empire in 27 BC would be AUC 727. The current year AD would be AUC . Usage of the term was more common during the Renaissance, when editors sometimes added AUC to Roman manuscripts they published, giving the false impression that the convention was commonly used in antiquity. In reality, the dominant method of identifying years in Roman times was to name the two consuls who held office that year. In late antiquity, regnal years were also in use, as in Roman Egypt during the Diocletian era after AD 293, and in the Byzantine Empire from AD 537, following a decree by Justinian. Significance Prior to the Roman state's adoption of the Varronian chronology – created by Titus Pomponius Atticus and Marcus Terentius Varro – there were many different dates posited for when the city was founded. This state of confusion required, for one to use an AUC date, one to pick a date as canonical. The Varronian chronology, constructed from fragmentary sources and demonstrably about four years off of absolute events , placed the founding of the city on 21 April 753 BC. This date, likely arrived at by mechanical calculation but accepted by the Augustan-era , has become the traditional date. From the time of Claudius () onward, this calculation superseded other contemporary calculations. Celebrating the anniversary of the city became part of imperial propaganda. Claudius was the first to hold magnificent celebrations in honor of the anniversary of the city, in AD 47, the eight hundredth year from the founding of the city. Hadrian, in AD 121, and Antoninus Pius, in AD 147 and AD 148, held similar celebrations respectively. In AD 248, Philip the Arab celebrated Rome's first millennium, together with Ludi saeculares for Rome's alleged tenth saeculum. Coins from his reign commemorate the celebrations. A coin by a contender for the imperial throne, Pacatianus, explicitly states "[y]ear one thousand and first," which is an indication that the citizens of the empire had a sense of the beginning of a new era, a Sæculum Novum. Calendar era The Anno Domini (AD) year numbering was developed by a monk named Dionysius Exiguus in Rome in , as a result of his work on calculating the date of Easter. Dionysius did not use the AUC convention, but instead based his calculations on the Diocletian era. This convention had been in use since AD 293, the year of the tetrarchy, as it became impractical to use regnal years of the current emperor. In his Easter table, the year was equated with the 248th regnal year of Diocletian. The table counted the years starting from the presumed birth of Christ, rather than the accession of the emperor Diocletian on 20 November AD 284 or, as stated by Dionysius: "sed magis elegimus ab incarnatione Domini nostri Jesu Christi annorum tempora praenotare" ("but rather we choose to name the times of the years from the incarnation of our Lord Jesus Christ"). Blackburn and Holford-Strevens review interpretations of Dionysius which place the Incarnation in 2 BC, 1 BC, or AD 1. The year AD 1 corresponds to AUC 754, based on the epoch of Varro. Thus: See also Calendar era History of Italy List of Latin phrases Roman calendar References External links 1st-century BC establishments in the Roman Empire 8th century BC in the Roman Kingdom Calendar eras Chronology Latin words and phrases Roman calendar Diocletian
Arapaoa Island (formerly spelled Arapawa Island) is the second-largest island in the Marlborough Sounds, at the north-east tip of the South Island of New Zealand. The island has a land area of . Queen Charlotte Sound defines its western side, while to the south lies Tory Channel, which is on the sea route between Wellington in the North Island to Picton. Cook Strait's narrowest point is between Arapaoa Island's Perano Head and Cape Terawhiti in the North Island. History According to Māori oral tradition, the island was where the great navigator Kupe killed the octopus Te Wheke-a-Muturangi. It was from a hill on Arapaoa Island in 1770 that Captain James Cook first saw the sea passage from the Pacific Ocean to the Tasman Sea, which was named Cook Strait. This discovery banished the fond notion of geographers that there existed a great southern continent, Terra Australis. A monument at Cook's Lookout was erected in 1970. From the late 1820s until the mid-1960s, Arapaoa Island was a base for whaling in the Sounds. John Guard established a shore station at Te Awaiti in 1827, however initially could only salvage baleen until the station was equipped to process whale oil from 1830 onwards, targeting right whales. Later, the station at Perano Head on the east coast of the island was used to hunt humpback whales from 1911 to 1964 (see Whaling in New Zealand). The houses built by the Perano family are now operated as tourist accommodation. In the 2000s the former whalers from the Perano and Heberley families, who live on Arapawa, joined a Department of Conservation whale spotting programme to assess how the humpback whale population has recovered since the end of whaling. An Air Albatross Cessna 402 commuter aircraft struck the 11,000-volt power lines linking the island and the mainland over Tory Channel in 1985. The crash was witnessed by many passengers on an inter-island Cook Strait ferry. The ferry immediately stopped to dispatch a rescue lifeboat. Along with the two pilots, one entire family died, and all but a young girl from the other. No bodies were ever found. The sole survivor (Cindy Mosey) was travelling with her family and the other family from Nelson to Wellington to attend a gymnastics competition. The Arapaoa Island crash caused public confidence in Air Albatross to falter, contributing to the company going into liquidation in December of that year. In August 2014, the spelling of the island's name was officially changed from Arapawa to Arapaoa. Conservation Parts of the island have been heavily cleared of native vegetation in the past through burning and logging, A number of pine forests were planted on the island. Wilding pines, an invasive species in some parts of New Zealand, are being poisoned on the island to allow the regenerating native vegetation to grow. About at Ruaomoko Point on the south-eastern portion of the island will be killed by drilling holes into the trees and injecting poison. Arapaoa Island is known for the breeds of domestic animals found only on the island – the Arapawa pig, Arapawa sheep and Arapawa goat. They became established in the 19th century, but the origin of the breeds is uncertain, and a matter of some speculation. Common suggestions are that they are old English breeds introduced by the early whalers, or by Captain Cook or other early explorers. These breeds are now extinct in England, and the goats surviving in a sanctuary on the island are now also bred in other parts of New Zealand and in the northern hemisphere. The small Brothers Islands, which lie off the northeast coast of Arapaoa Island, are a sanctuary for the rare Brothers Island tuatara. See also List of islands of New Zealand References Further reading Philp, Matt. 2011. The Sound of the Sea. New Zealand Geographic, 110. Heberley, Heather. 1996. Weather permitting. Whatamango Bay, N.Z. : Cape Catley. Heberley, Heather. 1997. Flood tide. Whatamango Bay, N.Z. : Cape Catley. Islands of the Marlborough Sounds Whaling stations in New Zealand Whaling in New Zealand Cook Strait Ferry Populated places in the Marlborough Sounds
Adrastea (), also known as , is the second by distance, and the smallest of the four inner moons of Jupiter. It was discovered in photographs taken by Voyager 2 in 1979, making it the first natural satellite to be discovered from images taken by an interplanetary spacecraft, rather than through a telescope. It was officially named after the mythological Adrasteia, foster mother of the Greek god Zeus—the equivalent of the Roman god Jupiter. Adrastea is one of the few moons in the Solar System known to orbit its planet in less than the length of that planet's day. It orbits at the edge of Jupiter's main ring and is thought to be the main contributor of material to the rings of Jupiter. Despite observations made in the 1990s by the Galileo spacecraft, very little is known about the moon's physical characteristics other than its size and the fact that it is tidally locked to Jupiter. Discovery and observations Adrastea was discovered by David C. Jewitt and G. Edward Danielson in Voyager 2 probe photographs taken on July 8, 1979, and received the designation . Although it appeared only as a dot, it was the first moon to be discovered by an interplanetary spacecraft. Soon after its discovery, two other of the inner moons of Jupiter (Thebe and Metis) were observed in the images taken a few months earlier by Voyager 1. The Galileo spacecraft was able to determine the moon's shape in 1998, but the images remain poor. In 1983, Adrastea was officially named after the Greek nymph Adrastea, the daughter of Zeus and his lover Ananke. Although the Juno orbiter, which arrived at Jupiter in 2016, has a camera called JunoCam, it is almost entirely focused on observations of Jupiter itself. However, if all goes well, it should be able to capture some limited images of the moons Metis and Adrastea. Physical characteristics Adrastea has an irregular shape and measures 20×16×14 km across. A surface area estimate would be between 840 and 1,600 (~1,200) km2. This makes it the smallest of the four inner moons. The bulk, composition and mass of Adrastea are not known, but assuming that its mean density is like that of Amalthea, around 0.86 g/cm3, its mass can be estimated at about 2 kg. Amalthea's density implies that the moon is composed of water ice with a porosity of 10–15%, and Adrastea may be similar. No surface details of Adrastea are known, due to the low resolution of available images. Orbit Adrastea is the smallest and second-closest member of the inner Jovian satellite family. It orbits Jupiter at a radius of about (1.806 Jupiter radii) at the exterior edge of the planet's main ring. The orbit has very small eccentricity and inclination—around 0.0015 and 0.03°, respectively. Inclination is relative to the equator of Jupiter. Due to tidal locking, Adrastea rotates synchronously with its orbital period, keeping one face always looking toward the planet. Its long axis is aligned towards Jupiter, this being the lowest energy configuration. The orbit of Adrastea lies inside Jupiter's synchronous orbit radius (as does Metis's), and as a result, tidal forces are slowly causing its orbit to decay so that it will one day impact Jupiter. If its density is similar to Amalthea's then its orbit would actually lie within the fluid Roche limit. However, since it is not breaking up, it must still lie outside its rigid Roche limit. Adrastea is the second-fastest-moving of Jupiter's moons, with an orbital speed of 31.378 km/s. Relationship with Jupiter's rings Adrastea is the largest contributor to material in Jupiter's rings. This appears to consist primarily of material that is ejected from the surfaces of Jupiter's four small inner satellites by meteorite impacts. It is easy for the impact ejecta to be lost from these satellites into space. This is due to the satellites' low density and their surfaces lying close to the edge of their Hill spheres. It seems that Adrastea is the most copious source of this ring material, as evidenced by the densest ring (the main ring) being located at and within Adrastea's orbit. More precisely, the orbit of Adrastea lies near the outer edge of Jupiter's main ring. The exact extent of visible ring material depends on the phase angle of the images: in forward-scattered light Adrastea is firmly outside the main ring, but in back-scattered light (which reveals much bigger particles) there appears to also be a narrow ringlet outside Adrastea's orbit. Notes References Cited sources (discovery) (naming the moon) External links Adrastea Profile by NASA's Solar System Exploration Moons of Jupiter 19790708 Discoveries by David C. Jewitt Discoveries by G. Edward Danielson Moons with a prograde orbit
Amalthea may refer to: Amalthea (mythology), the foster-mother of Zeus in Greek mythology Amalthea (moon), a moon of Jupiter MV Amalthea, a cargo ship 113 Amalthea, a main-belt asteroid Amalthea Cellars, a winery in New Jersey, United States Cumaean Sibyl or Amalthea, a priestess presiding over the Apollonian oracle at Cumae, a Greek colony near Naples, Italy Amalthea, a ship bombed by Anton Nilson in 1908 Lady Amalthea, a character in The Last Unicorn
Ananke is a deity in Greek mythology. Ananke may also refer to: Ananke (moon), a moon of Jupiter Ananke group, a group of satellites of Jupiter that follow similar orbits to Ananke "Ananke", a short story by Stanisław Lem from Tales of Pirx the Pilot Cosmopterix ananke, a moth of family Cosmopterigidae
Alph may refer to: Alpheus River, a river on the Peloponnese Alph River, a river in Antarctica Alph Lake, a lake in Antarctica Alph, a fictional river in the poem Kubla Khan by Samuel Taylor Coleridge Alph, a character from Luminous Arc Alph, a character from the game Pikmin 3 See also ALF (disambiguation) Alph Lyla, the in-house band of video game developer Capcom
Arbroath Abbey, in the Scottish town of Arbroath, was founded in 1178 by King William the Lion for a group of Tironensian Benedictine monks from Kelso Abbey. It was consecrated in 1197 with a dedication to the deceased Saint Thomas Becket, whom the king had met at the English court. It was William's only personal foundation — he was buried before the high altar of the church in 1214. The last Abbot was Cardinal David Beaton, who in 1522 succeeded his uncle James to become Archbishop of St Andrews. The Abbey is cared for by Historic Environment Scotland and is open to the public throughout the year (entrance charge). The distinctive red sandstone ruins stand at the top of the High Street in Arbroath. History King William gave the Abbey independence from its founding abbey, Kelso Abbey, and endowed it generously, including income from 24 parishes, land in every royal burgh and more. The Abbey's monks were allowed to run a market and build a harbour. King John of England gave the Abbey permission to buy and sell goods anywhere in England (except London) toll-free. The Abbey, which was the richest in Scotland, is most famous for its association with the 1320 Declaration of Scottish Independence believed to have been drafted by Abbot Bernard, who was the Chancellor of Scotland under King Robert I. The Abbey fell into ruin after the Reformation. From 1590 onward, its stones were raided for buildings in the town of Arbroath. This continued until 1815 when steps were taken to preserve the remaining ruins. On Christmas Day 1950, the Stone of Destiny went missing from Westminster Abbey. On April 11, 1951, the stone was found lying on the site of the Abbey's altar. Since 1947, a major historical re-enactment commemorating the Declaration's signing has been held within the roofless remains of the Abbey church. The celebration is run by the local Arbroath Abbey Pageant Society, and tells the story of the events which led up to the signing. This is not an annual event. However, a special event to mark the signing is held every year on the 6th of April and involves a street procession and short piece of street theatre. In 2005 The Arbroath Abbey campaign was launched. The campaign seeks to gain World Heritage Status for the iconic Angus landmark that was the birthplace of one of Scotland's most significant document, The Declaration of Arbroath. Campaigners believe that the Abbey's historical pronouncement makes it a prime candidate to achieve World Heritage Status. MSP Alex Johnstone wrote "Clearly, the Declaration of Arbroath is a literary work of outstanding universal significance by any stretch of the imagination" In 2008, the Campaign Group Chairman, Councillor Jim Millar launched a public petition to reinforce the bid explaining "We're simply asking people to, local people especially, to sign up to the campaign to have the Declaration of Arbroath and Arbroath Abbey recognised by the United Nations. Essentially we need local people to sign up to this campaign simply because the United Nations demand it." Architectural description The Abbey was built over some sixty years using local red sandstone, but gives the impression of a single coherent, mainly 'Early English' architectural design, though the round-arched processional doorway in the western front looks back to late Norman or transitional work. The triforium (open arcade) above the door is unique in Scottish medieval architecture. It is flanked by twin towers decorated with blind arcading. The cruciform church measured long by wide. What remains of it today are the sacristy, added by Abbot Paniter in the 15th century, the southern transept, which features Scotland's largest lancet windows, part of the choir and presbytery, the southern half of the nave, parts of the western towers and the western doorway. The church originally had a central tower and (probably) a spire. These would once have been visible from many miles over the surrounding countryside, and no doubt once acted as a sea mark for ships. The soft sandstone of the walls was originally protected by plaster internally and render externally. These coatings are long gone and much of the architectural detail is sadly eroded, though detached fragments found in the ruins during consolidation give an impression of the original refined, rather austere, architectural effect. The distinctive round window high in the south transept was originally lit up at night as a beacon for mariners. It is known locally as the 'Round O', and from this tradition inhabitants of Arbroath are colloquially known as 'Reid Lichties' (Scots reid = red). Little remains of the claustral buildings of the Abbey except for the impressive gatehouse, which stretches between the south-west corner of the church and a defensive tower on the High Street, and the still complete Abbot's House, a building of the 13th, 15th and 16th centuries, which is the best preserved of its type in Scotland. In the summer of 2001, a new visitors' centre was opened to the public beside the Abbey's west front. This red sandstone-clad building, with its distinctive 'wave-shaped' organic roof, planted with sedum, houses displays on the history of the Abbey and some of the best surviving stonework and other relics. The upper storey features a scale model of the Abbey complex, a computer-generated 'fly-through' reconstruction of the church as it was when complete, and a viewing gallery with excellent views of the ruins. The centre won the 2002 Angus Design Award. An archaeological investigation of the site of the visitors' centre before building started revealed the foundations of the medieval precinct wall, with a gateway, and stonework discarded during manufacture, showing that the area was the site of the masons' yard while the Abbey was being built. See also Abbot of Arbroath, for a list of abbots and commendators 1950 removal of the Stone of Scone References External links Undiscovered Scotland's detailed history https://web.archive.org/web/20140220180351/http://www.angus.gov.uk/history/features/buildings/arbabbey.htm http://www.arbroathabbeypageant.com 2002 Angus Design Award 1178 establishments 12th century in Scotland Christian monasteries established in the 12th century Buildings and structures in Angus, Scotland History of Angus, Scotland Tironensian monasteries Category A listed buildings in Angus, Scotland Listed monasteries in Scotland Former Christian monasteries in Scotland Arbroath Thomas Becket
The adversarial system or adversary system is a legal system used in the common law countries where two advocates represent their parties' case or position before an impartial person or group of people, usually a judge or jury, who attempt to determine the truth and pass judgment accordingly. It is in contrast to the inquisitorial system used in some civil law systems (i.e. those deriving from Roman law or the Napoleonic code) where a judge investigates the case. The adversarial system is the two-sided structure under which criminal trial courts operate, putting the prosecution against the defense. Basic features Adversarial systems are considered to have three basic features. The first is a neutral decision-maker such as a judge or jury. The second is presentation of evidence in support of each party's case, usually by lawyers. The third is a highly structured procedure. The rules of evidence are developed based upon the system of objections of adversaries and on what basis it may tend to prejudice the trier of fact which may be the judge or the jury. In a way the rules of evidence can function to give a judge limited inquisitorial powers as the judge may exclude evidence he or she believes is not trustworthy, or irrelevant to the legal issue at hand. Peter Murphy in his Practical Guide to Evidence recounts an instructive example. A frustrated judge in an English (adversarial) court finally asked a barrister after witnesses had produced conflicting accounts, "Am I never to hear the truth?" "No, my lord, merely the evidence", replied counsel. Parties Judges in an adversarial system are impartial in ensuring the fair play of due process, or fundamental justice. Such judges decide, often when called upon by counsel rather than of their own motion, what evidence is to be admitted when there is a dispute; though in some common law jurisdictions judges play more of a role in deciding what evidence to admit into the record or reject. At worst, abusing judicial discretion would actually pave the way to a biased decision, rendering obsolete the judicial process in question—rule of law being illicitly subordinated by rule of man under such discriminating circumstances. Lord Devlin in The Judge said: "It can also be argued that two prejudiced searchers starting from opposite ends of the field will between them be less likely to miss anything than the impartial searcher starting at the middle." The right to counsel in criminal trials was initially not accepted in some adversarial systems. It was believed that the facts should speak for themselves, and that lawyers would just blur the matters. As a consequence, it was only in 1836 that England gave suspects of felonies the formal right to have legal counsel (the Prisoners' Counsel Act 1836), although in practice, English courts routinely allowed defendants to be represented by counsel from the mid-18th century. During the second half of the 18th century, advocates like Sir William Garrow and Thomas Erskine, 1st Baron Erskine, helped usher in the adversarial court system used in most common law countries today. In the United States, however, personally retained counsel have had a right to appear in all federal criminal cases since the adoption of the United States Constitution, and in state cases at least since the end of the civil war, although nearly all provided this right in their state constitutions or laws much earlier. Appointment of counsel for indigent defendants was nearly universal in federal felony cases, though it varied considerably in state cases. It was not until 1963 that the U.S. Supreme Court declared that legal counsel must be provided at the expense of the state for indigent felony defendants, under the federal Sixth Amendment, in state courts. See Gideon v. Wainwright, . Criminal proceedings In criminal adversarial proceedings, an accused is not compelled to give evidence. Therefore, they may not be questioned by a prosecutor or judge unless they choose to be; however, should they decide to testify, they are subject to cross-examination and could be found guilty of perjury. As the election to maintain an accused person's right to silence prevents any examination or cross-examination of that person's position, it follows that the decision of counsel as to what evidence will be called is a crucial tactic in any case in the adversarial system and hence it might be said that it is a lawyer's manipulation of the truth. Certainly, it requires the skills of counsel on both sides to be fairly equally pitted and subjected to an impartial judge. In some adversarial legislative systems, the court is permitted to make inferences on an accused's failure to face cross-examination or to answer a particular question. This obviously limits the usefulness of silence as a tactic by the defense. In the United States, the Fifth Amendment has been interpreted to prohibit a jury from drawing a negative inference based on the defendant's invocation of his or her right not to testify, and the jury must be so instructed if the defendant requests. By contrast, while defendants in most civil law systems can be compelled to give statements, these statements are not subject to cross-examinations by the prosecution and are not given under oath. This allows the defendant to explain their side of the case without being subject to cross-examination by a skilled opposition. However, this is mainly because it is not the prosecutor but the judge who questions the defendant. The concept of "cross"-examination is entirely due to adversarial structure of the common law. Comparison with inquisitorial systems The name "adversarial system" may be misleading in that it implies it is only within this type of system in which there are opposing prosecution and defense. This is not the case, and both modern adversarial and inquisitorial systems have the powers of the state separated between a prosecutor and the judge and allow the defendant the right to counsel. Indeed, the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in Article 6 requires these features in the legal systems of its signatory states. One of the most significant differences between the adversarial system and the inquisitorial system occurs when a criminal defendant admits to the crime. In an adversarial system, there is no more controversy and the case proceeds to sentencing; though in many jurisdictions the defendant must have allocution of her or his crime; an obviously false confession will not be accepted even in common law courts. By contrast, in an inquisitorial system, the fact that the defendant has confessed is merely one more fact that is entered into evidence, and a confession by the defendant does not remove the requirement that the prosecution present a full case. This allows for plea bargaining in adversarial systems in a way that is difficult or impossible in inquisitional system, and many felony cases in the United States are handled without trial through such plea bargains. See also Adversary evaluation Exclusionary rule Parallel thinkingdescribed as a systemic alternative References Further reading Judiciaries Legal systems
Abano Terme (known as Abano Bagni until 1924) is a town and comune in the Province of Padua, in the Veneto region, Italy, on the eastern slope of the Euganean Hills; it is southwest by rail from Padua. Abano Terme's population is 19,062 (2001) (in 1901 it was 4,556). The town's hot springs and mud baths are an important economic resource. The waters have a temperature of about . History The baths were known to the Romans as Aponi fons or Aquae Patavinae. A description of them is given in a letter to Theodoric, the king of the Ostrogoths, from Cassiodorus. Some remains of the ancient baths have been discovered (S. Mandruzzato, Trattato dei Bagni d'Abano, Padua, 1789). An oracle of Geryon lay near, and the so-called sortes Praenestinae (C.I.L. i., Berlin, 1863; 1438–1454), small bronze cylinders inscribed, and used as oracles, were perhaps found here in the 16th century. The baths were destroyed by the Lombards in the 6th century, but they were rebuilt and enlarged when Abano became an autonomous comune in the 12th century and, again, in the late 14th century. The city was under the Republic of Venice from 1405 to 1797. Main sights Abano Cathedral, or the cathedral (duomo) of St. Lawrence. The current edifice was erected in 1780 over a pre-existing church which was allegedly destroyed by Cangrande della Scala. The bell tower has parts from the 9th/10th and 14th centuries. The Montirone Gallery, housing works of Il Moretto, Palma il Giovane, Guido Reni, Giovanni Domenico Tiepolo and others. The Sanctuary of the Madonna della Salute or of Monteortone (built from 1428). It lies on the site where the Madonna appeared to Pietro Falco, healing his wounds. The church is on the Latin cross plan, with a nave and two aisles with three apses decorated by a frieze. It has with a Baroque portal (1667), a bell tower, presbytery frescoes portraying the Histories of St. Peter and Virgin by Jacopo da Montagnana (1495) and Palma il Giovane's altarpiece depicting Christ Crucifixed Between St. Augustine and St. Jerome. Just outside the city is San Daniele Abbey (11th century). from the city is also Praglia Abbey, founded in the 11th century by Benedictine monks and rebuilt in 1496–1550. The abbey church of the Assumption, with a marble portal from 1548, has a Renaissance style interior. People Pietro d'Abano (1316), Italian physician and philosopher Matteo Meneghello (born 1981), Italian racing driver Twin towns Shibukawa, Japan Bad Füssing, Germany Lipik, Croatia Kamena Vourla, Greece See also Ex Oratorio del Montirone References Sources L'Italia da scoprire, Giorgio Mondadori, 2006. External links Abano.it Touristic informations web site Cities and towns in Veneto Spa towns in Italy
See also, Abatement. Abated, an ancient technical term applied in masonry and metal work to those portions which are sunk beneath the surface, as in inscriptions where the ground is sunk round the letters so as to leave the letters or ornament in relief. References Construction Masonry
Abati is a surname. It was used by an ancient noble family of Florence. Notable people with the surname include: Antonio Abati (died 1667), Italian poet Baldo Angelo Abati (sixteenth century), Italian naturalist Joaquín Abati (1865–1936), Spanish writer Joël Abati (born 1970), French handball player Megliore degli Abati (thirteenth century), Italian poet Niccolò dell'Abbate (1509 or 1512 – 1571), Italian painter Reuben Abati (born 1965), Nigerian newspaper columnist Other uses The Abati people, a fictional ethnic group in H. Rider Haggard's adventure novel Queen Sheba's Ring Abati, Iran, village Marauna abati, species of beetle in the family Cerambycidae References Italian-language surnames
An abatis, abattis, or abbattis is a field fortification consisting of an obstacle formed (in the modern era) of the branches of trees laid in a row, with the sharpened tops directed outwards, towards the enemy. The trees are usually interlaced or tied with wire. Abatis are used alone or in combination with wire entanglements and other obstacles. In Slavic languages it is known as zaseka, a position behind sharpened objects. History There is evidence it was used as early as the Roman Imperial period, and as recently as the American Civil War and the Anglo-Zulu War of 1879. Gregory of Tours mentions the use of abatises several times in his writing about the history of the early Franks. He wrote that the Franks ambushed and destroyed a Roman army near Neuss during the reign of Magnus Maximus with the use of an abatis. He also wrote that Mummolus, a general working for Burgundy, successfully used an abatis to defeat a Lombard army near Embrun. A classic use of an abatis was at the Battle of Carillon (1758) during the Seven Years' War. The 3,600 French troops defeated a massive army of 16,000 British and Colonial troops by fronting their defensive positions with an extremely dense abatis. The British found the defences almost impossible to breach and were forced to withdraw with some 2,600 casualties. Other uses of an abatis can be found at the Battle of the Chateauguay, 26 October 1813, when approximately 1,300 Canadian Voltigeurs, under the command of Charles-Michel de Salaberry, defeated an American corps of approximately 4,000 men, or at the Battle of Plattsburgh. Construction An important weakness of abatis, in contrast to barbed wire, is that it can be destroyed by fire. Also, if laced together with rope instead of wire, the rope can be very quickly destroyed by such fires, after which the abatis can be quickly pulled apart by grappling hooks thrown from a safe distance. An important advantage is that an improvised abatis can be quickly formed in forested areas. This can be done by simply cutting down a row of trees so that they fall with their tops toward the enemy. An alternative is to place explosives so as to blow the trees down. Modern use Abatis are rarely seen nowadays, having been largely replaced by wire obstacles. However, it may be used as a replacement or supplement when barbed wire is in short supply. A form of giant abatis, using whole trees instead of branches, can be used as an improvised anti-tank obstacle. Though rarely used by modern conventional military units, abatises are still officially maintained in United States Army and Marine Corps training. Current US training instructs engineers or other constructors of such obstacles to fell trees, leaving a stump, in such a manner as the trees fall interlocked pointing at a 45-degree angle towards the direction of approach of the enemy. Furthermore, it is recommended that the trees remain connected to the stumps and the length of roadway covered be at least . US military maps record an abatis by use of an inverted "V" with a short line extending from it to the right. See also Great Zasechnaya cherta Notes References External links Pamplin Historical Park & The National Museum of the Civil War Soldier includes large and authentic reproduction of abatis used in the U.S. Civil War. Fortifications by type Engineering barrages Medieval defences
George Abbot (29 October 15624 August 1633) was an English divine who was Archbishop of Canterbury from 1611 to 1633. He also served as the fourth Chancellor of the University of Dublin, from 1612 to 1633. Chambers Biographical Dictionary describes him as "[a] sincere but narrow-minded Calvinist". Among his five brothers, Robert became Bishop of Salisbury and Maurice became Lord Mayor of London. He was a translator of the King James Version of the Bible. Life and career Early years Born at Guildford in Surrey, where his father Maurice Abbot (died 1606) was a cloth worker, he was taught at the Royal Grammar School, Guildford. According to an eighteenth-century biographical dictionary, when Abbot's mother was pregnant with him she had a dream in which she was told that if she ate a pike her child would be a son and rise to great prominence. Some time afterwards she accidentally caught a pike while fetching water from the River Wey and it "being reported to some gentlemen in the neighbourhood, they offered to stand sponsors for the child, and afterwards shewed him many marks of favour". He later studied, and then taught under many eminent scholars, including Dr Thomas Holland, at Balliol College, Oxford, was chosen Master of University College in 1597, and appointed Dean of Winchester in 1600. He was three times Vice-Chancellor of the University, and took a leading part in preparing the authorised version of the New Testament. In 1608, he went to Scotland with George Home, 1st Earl of Dunbar to arrange for a union between the churches of England and Scotland. He so pleased King James in this affair that he was made Bishop of Lichfield and Coventry in 1609 and was translated to the see of London a month afterwards. Archbishop of Canterbury On 4 March 1611, Abbot was raised to the position of Archbishop of Canterbury. As archbishop, he defended the apostolic succession of Anglican bishops and the validity of the church's priesthood in 1614. In consequence of the Nag's Head Fable, the archbishop invited certain Roman Catholics to inspect the register in the presence of six of his own episcopal colleagues, the details of which inspection were preserved. It was agreed by all parties that: In spite of his defence of the catholic nature of the priesthood, his Puritan instincts frequently led him not only into harsh treatment of Roman Catholics, but also into courageous resistance to the royal will, such as when he opposed the scandalous divorce suit of the Lady Frances Howard against Robert Devereux, 3rd Earl of Essex, and again in 1618 when, at Croydon, he forbade the reading of the Declaration of Sports listing the permitted Sunday recreations. He was naturally, therefore, a promoter of the match between the king's daughter, Princess Elizabeth, and Frederick V, Elector Palatine, and a firm opponent of the projected marriage of the new Prince of Wales (later Charles I) and the Spanish Infanta, Maria Anna. This policy brought upon the archbishop the hatred of William Laud (with whom he had previously come into collision at Oxford) and the king's court, although the King himself never forsook Abbot. In July 1621, while hunting in Lord Zouch's park at Bramshill in Hampshire, a bolt from his cross-bow aimed at a deer happened to strike one of the keepers, who died within an hour, and Abbot was so greatly distressed by the event that he fell into a state of settled melancholia. His enemies maintained that the fatal issue of this accident disqualified him for his office, and argued that, though the homicide was involuntary, the sport of hunting which had led to it was one in which no clerical person could lawfully indulge. The King had to refer the matter to a commission of ten, though he said that "an angel might have miscarried after this sort". The commission was equally divided, and the King gave a casting vote in the Archbishop's favour, though signing also a formal pardon or dispensation. Gustavus Paine notes that Abbot was both the "only translator of the 1611 Bible and the only Archbishop of Canterbury ever to kill a human being". After this, the Archbishop seldom appeared at the council, chiefly on account of his infirmities. In 1625 he attended the King constantly, however, in his last illness, and performed the ceremony of the coronation of King Charles I as king of England. His refusal to license the assize sermon preached by Dr Robert Sibthorp at Northampton on 22 February 1627, in which cheerful obedience was urged to the king's demand for a general loan, and the duty proclaimed of absolute non-resistance even to the most arbitrary royal commands, led Charles to deprive him of his functions as primate, putting them in commission. The need of summoning parliament, however, soon brought about a nominal restoration of the Archbishop's powers. His presence being unwelcome at court, he lived from that time in retirement, leaving Laud and his party in undisputed ascendancy. He died at Croydon on 4 August 1633, and was buried at Guildford, his native place, where he had endowed Abbot's Hospital with lands to the value of £300 a year. Legacy Abbot was a conscientious prelate, though narrow in view and often harsh towards both separatists and Roman Catholics. He wrote a large number of works, the most interesting being his discursive Exposition on the Prophet Jonah (1600), which was reprinted in 1845. His Geography, or a Brief Description of the Whole World (1599), passed through numerous editions. The newest edition, edited by the current Master of the Abbot's Hospital, was published by Goldenford Publishers Ltd on 20 June 2011, to commemorate the 400th anniversary of his enthronement as Archbishop of Canterbury. Abbot had a large private library of more than 8000 volumes, the majority of which he left to Lambeth Palace Library. Books bearing his armorial stamp can still be found in libraries today. Guildford remembers the Archbishop with his hospital and a statue in the High Street. A secondary school and a pub in the High Street are named after him. His tomb can be found in Holy Trinity Church. Notes References External links 1562 births 1633 deaths Clergy from Guildford 17th-century Anglican archbishops People educated at Royal Grammar School, Guildford Alumni of Balliol College, Oxford Archbishops of Canterbury Bishops of London Bishops of Lichfield Chancellors of the University of Dublin English translators Vice-Chancellors of the University of Oxford Masters of University College, Oxford Translators of the King James Version 17th-century English Anglican priests 17th-century English diplomats Scottish Episcopal Church Deans of Winchester Burials in Surrey English male poets 17th-century Anglican theologians 16th-century Anglican theologians
Adware, often called advertising-supported software by its developers, is software that generates revenue for its developer by automatically generating online advertisements in the user interface of the software or on a screen presented to the user during the installation process. The software may generate two types of revenue: one is for the display of the advertisement and another on a "pay-per-click" basis, if the user clicks on the advertisement. Some advertisements also act as spyware, collecting and reporting data about the user, to be sold or used for targeted advertising or user profiling. The software may implement advertisements in a variety of ways, including a static box display, a banner display, a full screen, a video, a pop-up ad or in some other form. All forms of advertising carry health, ethical, privacy and security risks for users. The 2003 Microsoft Encyclopedia of Security and some other sources use the term "adware" differently: "any software that installs itself on your system without your knowledge and displays advertisements when the user browses the Internet", i.e., a form of malware. Some software developers offer their software free of charge, and rely on revenue from advertising to recoup their expenses and generate income. Some also offer a version of the software at a fee without advertising. Advertising-supported software In legitimate software, the advertising functions are integrated into or bundled with the program. Adware is usually seen by the developer as a way to recover development costs, and generate revenue. In some cases, the developer may provide the software to the user free of charge or at a reduced price. The income derived from presenting advertisements to the user may allow or motivate the developer to continue to develop, maintain and upgrade the software product. The use of advertising-supported software in business is becoming increasingly popular, with a third of IT and business executives in a 2007 survey by McKinsey & Company planning to be using ad-funded software within the following two years. Advertisement-funded software is also one of the business models for open-source software. Application software Some software is offered in both an advertising-supported mode and a paid, advertisement-free mode. The latter is usually available by an online purchase of a license or registration code for the software that unlocks the mode, or the purchase and download of a separate version of the software. Some software authors offer advertising-supported versions of their software as an alternative option to business organizations seeking to avoid paying large sums for software licenses, funding the development of the software with higher fees for advertisers. Examples of advertising-supported software include Adblock Plus ("Acceptable Ads"), the Windows version of the Internet telephony application Skype, and the Amazon Kindle 3 family of e-book readers, which has versions called "Kindle with Special Offers" that display advertisements on the home page and in sleep mode in exchange for substantially lower pricing. In 2012, Microsoft and its advertising division, Microsoft Advertising, announced that Windows 8, the major release of the Microsoft Windows operating system, would provide built-in methods for software authors to use advertising support as a business model. The idea had been considered since as early as 2005. Most editions of Windows 10 include adware by default. Software as a service Support by advertising is a popular business model of software as a service (SaaS) on the Web. Notable examples include the email service Gmail and other Google Workspace products (previously called Google Apps and G Suite), and the social network Facebook. Microsoft has also adopted the advertising-supported model for many of its social software SaaS offerings. The Microsoft Office Live service was also available in an advertising-supported mode. Definition of Spyware, Consent, and Ethics In the view of Federal Trade Commission staff, there appears to be general agreement that software should be considered "spyware" only if it is downloaded or installed on a computer without the user's knowledge and consent. However, unresolved issues remain concerning how, what, and when consumers need to be told about software installed on their computers. For instance, distributors often disclose in an end-user license agreement that there is additional software bundled with primary software, but some participants did not view such disclosure as sufficient to infer consent. Much of the discussion on the topic involves the idea of informed consent, the assumption being that this standard eliminates any ethical issues with any given software's behavior. However, if a majority of important software, websites and devices were to adopt similar behavior and only the standard of informed consent is used, then logically a user's only recourse against that behavior would become not using a computer. The contract would become an ultimatum - agree or be ostracized from the modern world. This is a form of psychological coercion and presents an ethical problem with using implied or inferred consent as a standard. There are notable similarities between this situation and binding arbitration clauses which have become inevitable in contracts in the United States. Furthermore, certain forms and strategies of advertising have been shown to lead to psychological harm, especially in children. One example is childhood eating disorders - several studies have reported a positive association between exposure to beauty and fashion magazines and an increased level of weight concerns or eating disorder symptoms in girls. Malware The term adware is frequently used to describe a form of malware (malicious software) which presents unwanted advertisements to the user of a computer. The advertisements produced by adware are sometimes in the form of a pop-up, sometimes in an "unclosable window", and sometimes injected into web pages. When the term is used in this way, the severity of its implication varies. While some sources rate adware only as an "irritant", others classify it as an "online threat" or even rate it as seriously as computer viruses and trojans. The precise definition of the term in this context also varies. Adware that observes the computer user's activities without their consent and reports it to the software's author is called spyware. Adwares may collect the personal information of the user, causing privacy concerns. However, most adware operates legally and some adware manufacturers have even sued antivirus companies for blocking adware. Programs have been developed to detect, quarantine, and remove advertisement-displaying malware, including Ad-Aware, Malwarebytes' Anti-Malware, Spyware Doctor and Spybot – Search & Destroy. In addition, almost all commercial antivirus software currently detect adware and spyware, or offer a separate detection module. A new wrinkle is adware (using stolen certificates) that disables anti-malware and virus protection; technical remedies are available. Adware has also been discovered in certain low-cost Android devices, particularly those made by small Chinese firms running on Allwinner systems-on-chip. There are even cases where adware code is embedded deep into files stored on the system and boot partitions, to which removal involves extensive (and complex) modifications to the firmware. In recent years, machine-learning based systems have been implemented to detect malicious adware on Android devices by examining features in the flow of network traffic. See also Malvertising Online advertising Typhoid adware Notes References Online advertising Types of malware
Aeclanum (also spelled Aeculanum, , ) was an ancient town of Samnium, Southern Italy, about 25 km east-southeast of Beneventum, on the Via Appia. It lies in Passo di Mirabella, near the modern Mirabella Eclano. It is now an archaeological park. Location Aeclanum was on a promontory naturally defended, to some extent, by a steep slope on the south side down to the river Calore, while the north side lay open towards the crest of the ridge that where the Via Appia ran. This led through Lacus Ampsanctus to Aquilonia and Venusia. Two other routes to Apulia, the and , diverged nearby, leading through Aequum Tuticum to Luceria and through Trivicum to Herdoniae respectively. The road from Aeclanum to Abellinum (modern Atripalda, near Avellino) may also follow an ancient line. Today there are ruins of the city walls, of an aqueduct, baths and an amphitheatre; nearly 400 inscriptions have also been discovered. Excavation has revealed a long history of pre-Roman settlement. History Aeclanum was a town of the Hirpini, although it was never mentioned during the Samnite wars. Sulla captured it in 89 BC by setting on fire the wooden breastwork by which it was defended, and sacked it. It quickly recovered, new fortifications were erected, and it became a municipium. Hadrian, who repaired the Via Appia from Beneventum to this point, made it a (colony). With the Lombard invasion of Italy, in the 6th century AD, it was annexed to the Duchy of Benevento, but was captured and destroyed by Eastern Roman forces under Constans II in 663 and never recovered, being reduced to a small hamlet known as Quintodecimo, a name that referred to its distance of 15 Roman miles from Benevento. Bishopric Aeclanum became a Christian episcopal see, whose best known bishop was Julian of Eclanum, who was consecrated by Pope Innocent I in about 417. He refused to sign the condemnation of Pelagianism issued by Pope Innocent's successor, Pope Zosimus, and carried on a war of writings against Augustine of Hippo. It has been thought that the diocese was united to that of Frequentium as early as the 5th century, but there is mention of Quintodecimo as a suffragan see of Benevento in 969 and 1058. From 1059 it was definitively united with Frequentium. No longer a residential bishopric, Aeclanum is today listed by the Catholic Church as a titular see. Gallery References External links Aeclanum (Cultural Property of Campania website) Aeclanum (Mirabella Eclano municipal website) Roman sites of Campania Samnite cities Former populated places in Italy Province of Avellino Human remains (archaeological) Archaeological sites in Campania Roman towns and cities in Italy Archaeological parks Buildings and structures in Campania Tourist attractions in Campania Tourism in Italy Osci Ruins in Italy Destroyed populated places Coloniae (Roman)
Aedesius (, died 355 AD) was a Neoplatonist philosopher and mystic. He was born into a wealthy Cappadocian family, but he moved to Syria, where he was apprenticed to Iamblichos. None of his writings have survived, but there is an extant biography by Eunapius, a Greek sophist and historian of the 4th century who wrote a collection of biographies titled Lives of the Sophists. Aedesius's philosophical doctrine was a mixture between Platonism and eclecticism and, according to Eunapius, he differed from Iamblichus on certain points connected with theurgy and magic. The school of Syria was dispersed after Iamblichus' death, and Aedesius seems to have modified his doctrines out of fear of Constantine II, and took refuge in divination. An oracle in hexameter verse represented a pastoral life as his only retreat, but his disciples, perhaps calming his fears by a metaphorical interpretation, compelled him to resume his instructions. Aedesius then founded a school of philosophy at Pergamon, which emphasized theurgy and the revival of polytheism, and where he numbered among his pupils Eusebius of Myndus, Maximus of Ephesus, and the Roman emperor Julian. After the accession of the latter to the imperial purple he invited Aedesius to continue his instructions, but the declining strength of the sage being unequal to the task, two of his most learned disciples, Chrysanthius and the aforementioned Eusebius, were by his own desire appointed to supply his place. His co-teacher and perhaps consort at the Pergamon school was the female philosopher and mystic, Sosipatra. References 355 deaths 4th-century Romans 4th-century Greek philosophers Neoplatonists Year of birth missing
In ancient Roman religion, an aedicula (plural aediculae) is a small shrine, and in classical architecture refers to a niche covered by a pediment or entablature supported by a pair of columns and typically framing a statue, the early Christian ones sometimes contained funeral urns. Aediculae are also represented in art as a form of ornamentation. The word aedicula is the diminutive of the Latin aedes, a temple building or dwelling place. The Latin word has been Anglicised as "aedicule" and as "edicule". Describing post-antique architecture, especially Renaissance architecture, aedicular forms may be described using the word tabernacle, as in tabernacle window. Classical aediculae Many aediculae were household shrines (lararia) that held small altars or statues of the Lares and Di Penates. The Lares were Roman deities protecting the house and the family household gods. The Penates were originally patron gods (really genii) of the storeroom, later becoming household gods guarding the entire house. Other aediculae were small shrines within larger temples, usually set on a base, surmounted by a pediment and surrounded by columns. In ancient Roman architecture the aedicula has this representative function in the society. They are installed in public buildings like the triumphal arch, city gate, and thermae. The Library of Celsus in Ephesus (2. c. AD) is a good example. From the 4th century Christianization of the Roman Empire onwards such shrines, or the framework enclosing them, are often called by the Biblical term tabernacle, which becomes extended to any elaborated framework for a niche, window or picture. Gothic aediculae In Gothic architecture, too, an aedicula or tabernacle is a structural framing device that gives importance to its contents, whether an inscribed plaque, a cult object, a bust or the like, by assuming the tectonic vocabulary of a little building that sets it apart from the wall against which it is placed. A tabernacle frame on a wall serves similar hieratic functions as a free-standing, three-dimensional architectural baldaquin or a ciborium over an altar. In Late Gothic settings, altarpieces and devotional images were customarily crowned with gables and canopies supported by clustered-column piers, echoing in small the architecture of Gothic churches. Painted aediculae frame figures from sacred history in initial letters of illuminated manuscripts. Renaissance aediculae Classicizing architectonic structure and décor all'antica, in the "ancient [Roman] mode", became a fashionable way to frame a painted or bas-relief portrait, or protect an expensive and precious mirror during the High Renaissance; Italian precedents were imitated in France, then in Spain, England and Germany during the later 16th century. Post-Renaissance classicism Aedicular door surrounds that are architecturally treated, with pilasters or columns flanking the doorway and an entablature even with a pediment over it came into use with the 16th century. In the neo-Palladian revival in Britain, architectonic aedicular or tabernacle frames, carved and gilded, are favourite schemes for English Palladian mirror frames of the late 1720s through the 1740s, by such designers as William Kent. Aediculae feature prominently in the arrangement of the Saint Peter's tomb with statues by Bernini; a small aedicule directly underneath it, dated ca. 160 AD, was discovered in 1940. Other aediculae Similar small shrines, called naiskoi, are found in Greek religion, but their use was strictly religious. Aediculae exist today in Roman cemeteries as a part of funeral architecture. Presently the most famous aedicule is situated inside the Church of the Holy Sepulchre in city of Jerusalem. Contemporary American architect Charles Moore (1925–1993) used the concept of aediculae in his work to create spaces within spaces and to evoke the spiritual significance of the home. See also Portico Similar, but free-standing structures: Ciborium Baldachin Monopteros Gazebo Notes References Bibliography Adkins, Lesley & Adkins, Roy A. (1996). Dictionary of Roman Religion. Facts on File, inc. . External links Conservation glossary Ancient Roman temples Architectural elements Ancient Roman architectural elements
The Aedui or Haedui (Gaulish: *Aiduoi, 'the Ardent'; ) were a Gallic tribe dwelling in what is now the region of Burgundy during the Iron Age and the Roman period. The Aedui had an ambiguous relationship with the Roman Republic, as well as other Gallic tribes. In 121 BC, they appealed to Rome against the Arverni and Allobroges. During the Gallic Wars (58–50 BC), they gave valuable though not whole-hearted support to Caesar, before eventually giving lukewarm support to Vercingetorix in 52. Although they were involved in the revolts of Iulius Sacrovir in 21 AD and Vindex in 68 AD, their aristocracy became highly Romanized under the Empire. Name They are mentioned as Ardues (Ἄρδυες) by Polybius (2nd c. BC), Haedui by Cicero (mid-1st c. BC) and Caesar (mid-1st c. BC), Haeduos by Livy (late 1st c. BC), Aedui by Pliny (mid-1st c. AD), Aidúōn (Αἰδύων) by Ptolemy (2nd c. AD), and as Aídouoi (Aἴδουοι) by Cassius Dio (3rd c. AD). The ethnonym Aedui is a latinized form of Gaulish *Aiduoi (sing. *Aiduos), which means 'the Ardent ones'. It derives from the Celtic stem *aidu- ('fire, ardour'; cf. Old Irish áed 'fire', Welsh aidd 'ardour'; also the Irish deity Aéd or Aodh), itself from Proto-Indo-European ('firewood'; cf. Sanskrit édhas 'bonfire', Latin aedes 'building, temple'; cf. also Ancient Greek Aether 'god of the upper sky' and Aethra 'bright sky', from aíthō 'to ignite, to kindle'). Geography Territory The territory of the Aedui was situated between the Saône and Loire rivers, in a strategic position regarding trade routes. It included most of the modern départements of Saône-et-Loire and Nièvre, the southwestern-part of Côte-d'Or between Beaune and Saulieu, and the southern part of Yonne around Avallon, corresponding to the Saône plains, the Morvan granitic massif, and the low Nivernais plateau, from east to west. They dwelled between the Arverni in the west, the Segusiavi and Ambarri in the south, the Sequani in the east, and the Lingones and Senones in the north. Settlements Three oppida are known from the end of the La Tène period: Vieux-Dun (Dun-les-Places), Le Fou de Verdun (Lavault-de-Frétoy), and Bibracte, which occupied a central position in the Aedian economic system. During the Roman period, Bibracte was abandoned for Augustodunum ('fortress of Augustus'; modern-day Autun). Ancient sources The country of the Aedui is defined by reports of them in ancient writings. The upper Liger formed their western border, separating them from the Bituriges. The Arar formed their eastern border, separating them from the Sequani. The Sequani did not reside in the region of the confluence of the Dubis and the Arar, and of the Arar into the Rhodanus, as Caesar says that the Helvetii, traveling southward along the pass between the Jura Mountains and the Rhodanus, which belonged to the Sequani, plundered the territory of the Aedui. These circumstances explain an apparent contradiction in Strabo, who in one sentence says that the Aedui lived between the Arar and the Dubis, and in the next, that the Sequani lived across the Arar (eastward). History Pre-Roman period By the early 3rd century BC, the emergence of groups of settlements with diversified functions, along with the creation of sanctuaries, suggest the beginning of a continuous La Tène settlement in the region. Roman period Outside of the Roman province and prior to Roman rule, Gaul was occupied by self-governing tribes divided into cantons, and each canton was further divided into communes. The Aedui, like other powerful tribes in the region, such as the Arverni, Sequani, and Helvetii, had replaced their monarchy with a council of magistrates called grand-judges. The grand-judges were under the authority of a senate. This senate was made up of the descendants of ancient royal families. Free men in the tribes were vassals of the heads of these families, in an exchange of military, financial, and political interests. According to Livy (v. 34), the Aedui took part in the expedition of Bellovesus into Italy in the sixth century BC. Before Caesar's time, they had attached themselves to the Romans and were honoured with the title of brothers and kinsmen of the Roman people. When the Sequani, their traditional rivals, defeated and massacred the Aedui at the Battle of Magetobriga in 63 BC, with the assistance of the Germanic chieftain Ariovistus, the Aedui sent the druid Diviciacus to Rome with an appeal to the senate for help; but his mission was unsuccessful. After his arrival in Gaul in 58 BC, Caesar restored the independence of the Aedui. In spite of this, they subsequently joined the Gallic coalition against Caesar (B. G. vii. 42), but after the surrender of Vercingetorix at the Battle of Alesia, the Aedui gladly returned to their allegiance. Augustus dismantled their capital, Bibracte, on Mont Beuvray, and constructed a new town with a half-Roman, half-Gaulish name, Augustodunum (modern Autun). In AD 21, during the reign of Tiberius, the Aedui revolted under Julius Sacrovir, and seized Augustodunum, but they were soon put down by Gaius Silius (Tacitus Ann. iii. 43–46). The Aedui were the first of the Gauls to receive from the emperor Claudius the distinction of jus honorum, thus being the first Gauls permitted to become senators. Until Claudius (41–54 AD), the Aedui were the first northern Gallic people to send senators to Rome. The oration of Eumenius, in which he pleaded for the restoration of the schools of his native Augustodunum, suggests that the district was then neglected. The chief magistrate of the Aedui in Caesar's time was called the Vergobretus (according to Mommsen, "judgment-worker"). He was elected annually, and possessed powers of life and death, but was forbidden to go beyond the frontiers of his territory. Certain clientes, or small communities, were also dependent upon the Aedui. It is possible that the Aedui adopted many of the governmental practices of the Romans, such as electing magistrates and other officials, although it may have been a natural development in their political system. It is thought that other Celtic tribes, such as the Remi and the Baiocasses, also elected their leaders. Religion The Temple of Janus was located just outside the Aedian town of Augustodunum. It probably dates back to the second half of the 1st century AD. At the end of the La Tène period, religious convergences occurred between the Aedui and the neighbouring Lingones and Sequani in the Saône-Doubs area, as evidenced by the similarity in the practices at the sanctuaries of Nuits-Saint-Georges (Aedui), Mirebeau-sur-Bèze (Lingones) and Mandeure (Sequani). Political organization According to Julius Caesar, the Aedui were one of the strongest Gallic tribes, in rivalry with the Helvetii, Sequani, Remi, and Arverni. Furthermore, the Aedui seemed to work in a semi-republican state, with the powerful Vergobret at least slightly being at the will of the people, similar to the senators of Rome. See also List of peoples of Gaul Jublains archeological site References Primary sources Bibliography Further reading Historical Celtic peoples Gauls Tribes involved in the Gallic Wars
The Aegadian Islands (; , ; ) are a group of five small mountainous islands in the Mediterranean Sea off the northwest coast of Sicily, Italy, near the cities of Trapani and Marsala, with a total area of . The island of Favignana (Aegusa), the largest, lies southwest of Trapani; Levanzo (Phorbantia) lies west; and Marettimo, the ancient Hiera Nesos, west of Trapani, is now reckoned as a part of the group. There are also two minor islands, Formica and Maraone, lying between Levanzo and Sicily. For administrative purposes the archipelago constitutes the comune of Favignana in the Province of Trapani. The overall population in 2017 was 4,292. Winter frost is unknown and rainfall is low. The main occupation of the islanders is fishing, and the largest tuna fishery in Sicily is there. History There is evidence of Neolithic and even Paleolithic paintings in caves on Levanzo, and to a lesser extent on Favignana. The islands were the scene of the battle of the Aegates of 241 BC, in which the Carthaginian fleet was defeated by the Roman fleet led by Lutatius Catulus; the engagement ended the First Punic War. After the end of Western Roman power in the first millennium AD, the islands, to the extent that they were governed at all, were part of territories of Goths, Vandals, Saracens, before the Normans fortified Favignana in 1081. The islands belonged to the Pallavicini-Rusconi family of Genoa until 1874, when the Florio family of Palermo bought them. Island views See also Isolotto Formica Lighthouse References External links Archipelagoes of Italy
The aegis ( ; aigís), as stated in the Iliad, is a device carried by Athena and Zeus, variously interpreted as an animal skin or a shield and sometimes featuring the head of a Gorgon. There may be a connection with a deity named Aex, a daughter of Helios and a nurse of Zeus or alternatively a mistress of Zeus (Hyginus, Astronomica 2. 13). The modern concept of doing something "under someone's aegis means doing something under the protection of a powerful, knowledgeable, or benevolent source. The word aegis is identified with protection by a strong force with its roots in Greek mythology and adopted by the Romans; there are parallels in Norse mythology and in Egyptian mythology as well, where the Greek word aegis is applied by extension. Etymology The Greek aigis, has many meanings including: "violent windstorm", from the verb aïssō (word stem aïg-) = "I rush or move violently". Akin to kataigis, "thunderstorm". The shield of a deity as described above. "goatskin coat", from treating the word as meaning "something grammatically feminine pertaining to goat": Greek aix (stem aig-) = "goat", + suffix -is (stem -id-). The original meaning may have been the first, and Zeus Aigiokhos = "Zeus who holds the aegis" may have originally meant "Sky/Heaven, who holds the thunderstorm". The transition to the meaning "shield" or "goatskin" may have come by folk etymology among a people familiar with draping an animal skin over the left arm as a shield. In Greek mythology The aegis of Athena is referred to in several places in the Iliad. "It produced a sound as from myriad roaring dragons (Iliad, 4.17) and was borne by Athena in battle ... and among them went bright-eyed Athene, holding the precious aegis which is ageless and immortal: a hundred tassels of pure gold hang fluttering from it, tight-woven each of them, and each the worth of a hundred oxen." Virgil imagines the Cyclopes in Hephaestus' forge, who "busily burnished the aegis Athena wears in her angry moods—a fearsome thing with a surface of gold like scaly snake-skin, and the linked serpents and the Gorgon herself upon the goddess's breast—a severed head rolling its eyes", furnished with golden tassels and bearing the Gorgoneion (Medusa's head) in the central boss. Some of the Attic vase-painters retained an archaic tradition that the tassels had originally been serpents in their representations of the aegis. When the Olympian deities overtook the older deities of Greece and she was born of Metis (inside Zeus who had swallowed the goddess) and "re-born" through the head of Zeus fully clothed, Athena already wore her typical garments. When the Olympian shakes the aegis, Mount Ida is wrapped in clouds, the thunder rolls and men are struck down with fear. "Aegis-bearing Zeus", as he is in the Iliad, sometimes lends the fearsome aegis to Athena. In the Iliad when Zeus sends Apollo to revive the wounded Hector, Apollo, holding the aegis, charges the Achaeans, pushing them back to their ships drawn up on the shore. According to Edith Hamilton's Mythology: Timeless Tales of Gods and Heroes, the Aegis is the breastplate of Zeus, and was "awful to behold". However, Zeus is normally portrayed in classical sculpture holding a thunderbolt or lightning, bearing neither a shield nor a breastplate. In classical poetry and art Classical Greece interpreted the Homeric aegis usually as a cover of some kind borne by Athena. It was supposed by Euripides (Ion, 995) that the aegis borne by Athena was the skin of the slain Gorgon, yet the usual understanding is that the Gorgoneion was added to the aegis, a votive offering from a grateful Perseus. In a similar interpretation, Aex, a daughter of Helios, represented as a great fire-breathing chthonic serpent similar to the Chimera, was slain and flayed by Athena, who afterwards wore its skin, the aegis, as a cuirass (Diodorus Siculus iii. 70), or as a chlamys. The Douris cup shows that the aegis was represented exactly as the skin of the great serpent, with its scales clearly delineated. John Tzetzes says that aegis was the skin of the monstrous giant Pallas whom Athena overcame and whose name she attached to her own. In a late rendering by Gaius Julius Hyginus (Poetical Astronomy ii. 13), Zeus is said to have used the skin of a pet goat owned by his nurse Amalthea (aigis "goat-skin") which suckled him in Crete, as a shield when he went forth to do battle against the Titans. The aegis appears in works of art sometimes as an animal's skin thrown over Athena's shoulders and arms, occasionally with a border of snakes, usually also bearing the Gorgon head, the gorgoneion. In some pottery it appears as a tasselled cover over Athena's dress. It is sometimes represented on the statues of Roman emperors, heroes, and warriors, and on coins, cameos and vases. A vestige of that appears in a portrait of Alexander the Great in a fresco from Pompeii dated to the first century BC, which shows the image of the head of a woman on his armor that resembles the Gorgon. Interpretations Herodotus thought he had identified the source of the aegis in ancient Libya, which was always a distant territory of ancient magic for the Greeks. "Athene's garments and aegis were borrowed by the Greeks from the Libyan women, who are dressed in exactly the same way, except that their leather garments are fringed with thongs, not serpents." Robert Graves in The Greek Myths (1955) asserts that the aegis in its Libyan sense had been a shamanic pouch containing various ritual objects, bearing the device of a monstrous serpent-haired visage with tusk-like teeth and a protruding tongue which was meant to frighten away the uninitiated. In this context, Graves identifies the aegis as clearly belonging first to Athena. One current interpretation is that the Hittite sacral hieratic hunting bag (kursas), a rough and shaggy goatskin that has been firmly established in literary texts and iconography by H.G. Güterbock, was a source of the aegis. References External links Theoi Project: "Aigis" Die Aigis: Zu Typologie und Ikonographie eines Mythischen Gegenstandes: a Doctoral dissertation on the Ægis (Westfälischen Wilhelms-Universität, Münster 1991) by Sigrid Vierck. Comparative mythology Greek mythology Greek shields Interpersonal relationships Medusa Mythography Mythological clothing Mythological shields Symbols of Athena
Aegisthus (; ; also transliterated as Aigisthos, ) was a figure in Greek mythology. Aegisthus is known from two primary sources: the first is Homer's Odyssey, believed to have been first written down by Homer at the end of the 8th century BC, and the second from Aeschylus's Oresteia, written in the 5th century BC. Aegisthus also features heavily in the action of Euripides's Electra ( 420 BC), although his character remains offstage. Family Aegisthus was the son of Thyestes and Thyestes's own daughter Pelopia, an incestuous union motivated by his father's rivalry with the house of Atreus for the throne of Mycenae. Aegisthus murdered Atreus in order to restore his father to power, ruling jointly with him, only to be driven from power by Atreus's son Agamemnon. In another version, Aegisthus was the sole surviving son of Thyestes after Atreus killed his brother's children and served them to Thyestes in a meal. While Agamemnon laid siege to Troy, his estranged queen Clytemnestra took Aegisthus as a lover. The couple killed Agamemnon upon the king's return, making Aegisthus king of Mycenae once more. Aegisthus ruled for seven more years before his death at the hands of Agamemnon's son Orestes. Mythology Early life Thyestes felt he had been deprived of the Mycenean throne unfairly by his brother, Atreus. The two battled back and forth several times. In addition, Thyestes had an affair with Atreus's wife, Aerope. In revenge, Atreus killed Thyestes's sons and served them to him unknowingly. After realizing he had eaten his own sons' corpses, Thyestes asked an oracle how best to gain revenge. The advice was to father a son with his own daughter, Pelopia, and that son would kill Atreus. Thyestes raped Pelopia after she performed a sacrifice, hiding his identity from her. When Aegisthus was born, his mother abandoned him, ashamed of his origin, and he was raised by shepherds and suckled by a goat, hence his name Aegisthus (from , male goat). Atreus, not knowing the baby's origin, took Aegisthus in and raised him as his own son. Death of Atreus In the night in which Pelopia had been raped by her father, she had taken from him his sword which she afterwards gave to Aegisthus. When she discovered that the sword belonged to her own father, she realised that her son was the product of incestuous rape. In despair, she killed herself. Atreus in his enmity towards his brother sent Aegisthus to kill him; but the sword which Aegisthus carried was the cause of the recognition between Thyestes and his son, and the latter returned and slew his uncle Atreus, while he was offering a sacrifice on the seacoast. Aegisthus and his father now took possession of their lawful inheritance from which they had been expelled by Atreus. Power struggle over Mycenae Aegisthus and Thyestes thereafter ruled over Mycenae jointly, exiling Atreus's sons Agamemnon and Menelaus to Sparta, where King Tyndareus gave the pair his daughters, Clytemnestra and Helen, to take as wives. Agamemnon and Clytemnestra had four children: one son, Orestes, and three daughters, Iphigenia, Electra, and Chrysothemis. After the death of Tyndareus, Meneleaus became king of Sparta. He used the Spartan army to drive out Aegisthus and Thyestes from Mycenae and place Agamemnon on the throne. Agamemnon extended his dominion by conquest and became the most powerful ruler in Greece. After Helen's abduction to Troy, Agamemnon was forced to sacrifice his own daughter Iphigenia in order to appease the gods before setting off for Ilium. While Agamemnon was away fighting in the Trojan War, Clytemnestra turned against her husband and took Aegisthus as a lover. Upon Agamemnon's return to Mycenae, Aegisthus and Clytemnestra worked together to kill Agamemnon with certain accounts recording Aegisthus committing the murder while others record Clytemnestra herself exacting revenge on Agamemnon for his murder of Iphigenia. Following Agamemnon's death, Aegisthus reigned over Mycenae for seven years. He and Clytemnestra had a son, Aletes, and two daughters, Erigone and Helen. In the eighth year of his reign Orestes, the son of Agamemnon, returned to Mycenae and avenged the death of his father by killing Aegisthus and Clytemnestra. The impiety of matricide was such that Orestes was forced to flee from Mycenae, pursued by the Furies. Aletes became king until Orestes returned several years later and killed him. Orestes later married Aegisthus's daughter Erigone. In culture Homer gives no information about Aegisthus's antecedents. We learn from him only that, after the death of Thyestes, Aegisthus ruled as king at Mycenae and took no part in the Trojan expedition. While Agamemnon was absent on his expedition against Troy, Aegisthus seduced Clytemnestra, and was so wicked as to offer up thanks to the gods for the success with which his criminal exertions were crowned. In order not to be surprised by the return of Agamemnon, he sent out spies, and when Agamemnon came, Aegisthus invited him to a repast at which he had him treacherously murdered. In Aeschylus's Oresteia, Aegisthus is a minor figure. In the first play, Agamemnon, he appears at the end to claim the throne, after Clytemnestra herself has killed Agamemnon and Cassandra. Clytemnestra wields the axe she has used to quell dissent. In The Libation Bearers he is killed quickly by Orestes, who then struggles over having to kill his mother. Aegisthus is referred to as a "weak lion", plotting the murders but having his lover commit the deeds. According to Johanna Leah Braff, he "takes the traditional female role, as one who devises but is passive and does not act." Christopher Collard describes him as the foil to Clytemnestra, his brief speech in Agamemnon revealing him to be "cowardly, sly, weak, full of noisy threats - a typical 'tyrant figure' in embryo." Aeschylus's portrayal of Aegisthus as a weak, implicitly feminised figure, influenced later writers and artists who often depict him as an effeminate or decadent individual, either manipulating or dominated by the more powerful Clytemnestra. He appears in Seneca's Agamemnon, enticing her to murder. In Richard Strauss's and Hugo von Hofmannsthal's opera, Elektra his voice is "a decidedly high-pitched tenor, punctuated by irrational upward leaps, that rises to high pitched squeals during his death colloquy with Elektra." In the first production he was depicted as "an epicene...with long curly locks and rouged lips, half-cringing, half-posturing seductively." An ancient tomb in Mycenae is fancifully known as the "Tomb of Aegisthus". It dates from around 1470 BC. References External links Kings of Mycenae Fictional offspring of incestuous relationships
Aegospotami (, Aigos Potamoi) or Aegospotamos (i.e. Goat Streams) is the ancient Greek name for a small river issuing into the Hellespont (Modern Turkish Çanakkale Boğazı), northeast of Sestos. At its mouth was the scene of the decisive battle in 405 BC in which Lysander destroyed the Athenian fleet, ending the Peloponnesian War. The ancient Greek township of the same name, whose existence is attested by coins of the 5th and 4th centuries, and the river itself were located in ancient Thrace in the Chersonese. According to ancient sources including Pliny the Elder and Aristotle, in 467 BC a large meteorite landed near Aegospotami. It was described as brown in colour and the size of a wagon load. A comet, tentatively identified as Halley's Comet, was reported at the time the meteorite landed. This is possibly the first European record of Halley's comet. Aegospotami is located on the Dardanelles, northeast of the modern Turkish town of Sütlüce, Gelibolu. References Greek colonies in the Thracian Chersonese Ancient Greek archaeological sites in Turkey Rivers of Turkey Former populated places in Turkey Landforms of Çanakkale Province History of Çanakkale Province (+) Populated places in ancient Thrace
Aelian or Aelianus may refer to: Aelianus Tacticus, Greek military writer of the 2nd century, who lived in Rome Casperius Aelianus, Praetorian Prefect, executed by Trajan Claudius Aelianus, Roman writer, teacher and historian of the 3rd century, who wrote in Greek Lucius Aelianus, one of the thirty tyrants under the Roman empire Aelianus Meccius, ancient Greek physician, tutor of Galen Tiberius Plautius Silvanus Aelianus, adopted nephew of Plautia Urgulanilla, first wife of Claudius; consul 45 and 74 AD Aelianus (rebel), leader of the Bagaudae peasant rebels Aelianus (comes), leader of the Roman defensive forces at the Siege of Amida in 359.
Aelianus Tacticus (; fl. 2nd century AD), also known as Aelian (), was a Greek military writer who lived in Rome. Work Aelian's military treatise in fifty-three chapters on the tactics of the Greeks, titled On Tactical Arrays of the Greeks (), is dedicated to the emperor Hadrian, though this is probably a mistake for Trajan, and the date 106 has been assigned to it. It is a handbook of Greek, i.e. Macedonian, drill and tactics as practiced by the Hellenistic successors of Alexander the Great. The author claims to have consulted all the best authorities, the most important of which was a lost treatise on the subject by Polybius. Perhaps the chief value of Aelian's work lies in his critical account of preceding works on the art of war, and in the fullness of his technical details in matters of drill. Aelian also gives a brief account of the constitution of a Roman army at that time. The work arose, he says, from a conversation he had with the emperor Nerva at Frontinus's house at Formiae. He promises a work on Naval Tactics also; but this, if it was written, is lost. Critics of the 18th century — Guichard Folard and the Prince de Ligne — were unanimous in thinking Aelian greatly inferior to Arrian, but Aelian exercised a great influence both on his immediate successors, the Byzantines, and later on the Arabs, (who translated the text for their own use). The author of the Strategikon ascribed to the emperor Maurice selectively used Aelian's work as a conceptional model, especially its preface. Emperor Leo VI the Wise incorporated much of Aelian's text in his own Taktika. The Arabic version of Aelian was made about 1350. It was first translated into Latin by Theodore Gaza, published at Rome in 1487. The Greek editio princeps was edited by Francesco Robortello and published at Venice in 1552. In spite of its academic nature, the copious details to be found in the treatise rendered it of the highest value to the army organisers of the 16th century, who were engaged in fashioning a regular military system out of the semi-feudal systems of previous generations. The Macedonian phalanx of Aelian had many points of resemblance to the solid masses of pikemen and the squadrons of cavalry of the Spanish and Dutch systems, and the translations made in the 16th century formed the groundwork of numerous books on drill and tactics. The first significant reference to the influence of Aelian in the 16th century is a letter to Maurice of Nassau, Prince of Orange from his cousin William Louis, Count of Nassau-Dillenburg on December 8, 1594. The letter is influential in supporting the thesis of the early-modern Military Revolution. In the letter, William Louis discusses the use of ranks by soldiers of Imperial Rome as discussed in Aelian's Tactica. Aelian was discussing the use of the counter march in the context of the Roman sword gladius and spear pilum. William Louis in a 'crucial leap' realised that the same technique could work for men with firearms. References Sources Roman-era Greeks 2nd-century writers Ancient Macedonian army Ancient Greek military writers 2nd-century Greek people
Ajaigarh or Ajaygarh is a town and a nagar panchayat in the Panna District of Madhya Pradesh state in central India. Ajaigarh State was one of the princely states of India during the period of the British Raj. The state was founded in 1785, and its capital was in Ajaigarh. History Ajaigarh was the capital of a princely state of the same name during the British Raj. Ajaigarh was founded in 1765 by Guman Singh, a Bundela Rajput who was the nephew of Raja Pahar Singh of Jaitpur. After Ajaigarh was captured by the British in 1809, it became a princely state in the Bundelkhand Agency of the Central India Agency. It had an area of , and a population of 78,236 in 1901. The rulers bore the title of sawai maharaja. He commanded an estimated annual revenue of about £15,000/-, and paid a tribute of £460/-. The chief resided at the town of Nowgong, at the foot of the hill-fortress of Ajaigarh, from which the state took its name. This fort, situated on a steep hill, towers more than above the eponymous township, and contains the ruins of several temples adorned with elaborately carved sculptures. The town was often afflicted by malaria, and suffered severely from famine in 1868–69 and 1896–97. The state acceded to the Government of India on 1 January 1950; the ruling chief was granted a privy purse of Rs. 74,700/-, and the courtesy use of his styles and titles. All of these were revoked by the government of India in 1971, at the time when these privileges were revoked from all erstwhile princes. The former princely state became part of the new Indian state of Vindhya Pradesh, and most of the territory of the former state, including the town of Ajaigarh, became part of Panna District, with a smaller portion going to Chhatarpur District. Vindhya Pradesh was merged into Madhya Pradesh on 1 November 1956. Rulers of Ajaygarh Maharajadhiraja Chhatrasal : 1649–1731 (founder ruler of many kingdoms) ___|__ Hirdeshah Jagatraj Bhartichandra (Panna) (Jaitpur) (Jaso) |__ Vir Singh Kirat Singh Pahar Singh (1758–1765) |__ Khuman Singh Guman Singh (1765–1792) Durg Singh (Charkari) (Banda)(No issues) | |__Son of__| Bhakhat Singh :b. 1792-d. 1837 (Founder ruler of Ajaigarh) _|___ Madho Singh (r. 1837–1849) Mahipat Singh (r. 1849–1853) (No male issue) | | Ranjore Singh (K.C.I.E)__Vijay Singh (R. 1853–1855) (born 1844; died 1919) (died early, fell from horse) _| Jaipal Singh Bhopal Singh (K.C.I.E.) Pakshpal Singh (born 1866; died 1942) | | Col. Deshpal Singh : (1914 - ) Punyapratap Singh: | | (born 1884; died 1958) Ajaiveer Singh Ashit Varn Singh (1953-2017) | (No Male Issue) | Devendra Vijay Singh | (born 1913; died 1984) Hraday Shah ---------------| (Privy Purses, titles abolished) _|_ Mahipendra Singh Kaushalendra Singh Surendra Singh | (born 1934; died 1982) | | | | Shailendra Singh Ajayraj Singh Tarunendra Singh Ajaigarh Fort Ajaigarh or Ajaygarh Fort is among the top attractions of the region. It stands alone on a hilltop in the district of Panna and is easily accessible from Khajuraho. The fort is bordered by the Vindhya Hills and provides views of the Ken River. This fort is noted for its rich historical past and its architecture, which dates to the Chandela dynasty. The fort is visited by both history and art lovers. This fort has two gates (earlier there were five), two temples and two rock-cut tanks, close to the northern gate. These tanks have been named as Ganga and Yamuna. Gallery Demographics As of the 2001 India census, Ajaigarh had a population of 13,979. Males constitute 53% of the population and females 47%. Ajaigarh has an average literacy rate of 59%, which is lower than the national average of 59.5%; with 61% of the males and 39% of females literate. 16% of the population is under 6 years of age. References External links Ajaigarh photo callery Ajaigarh Fort & Valley Populated places established in 1765 Bundelkhand Cities and towns in Panna district Tourist attractions in Panna district
Abatement of debts and legacies is a common law doctrine of wills that holds that when the equitable assets of a deceased person are not sufficient to satisfy fully all the creditors, their debts must abate proportionately, and they must accept a dividend. Also, in the case of legacies when the funds or assets out of which they are payable are not sufficient to pay them in full, the legacies abate in proportion, unless there is a priority given specially to any particular legacy. Annuities are also subject to the same rule as general legacies. The order of abatement is usually: Intestate property The residuary of the estate General Devises—i.e., cash gifts Demonstrative Devises—i.e., cash gifts from a specific account, stocks, bonds, securities, etc. Specific Devises—i.e., specified items of personal property, real property, etc. Non-probate property—i.e., life insurance policies—do not abate. Definitions A specific devise, is a specific gift in a will to a specific person other than an amount of money. For example, if James's will states that he is leaving his $500,000 yacht to his brother Mike, the yacht would be a specific devise. A general devise, is a monetary gift to a specific person to be satisfied out of the overall estate. For example, if James's will states that he is leaving $500,000 to his son Sam then the money would be a general devise. A demonstrative devise, is money given from a particular account. For example, "$10,000 to be paid from the sale of my GM stock." A residual devise is one left to a devisee after all specific and general devices have been made. For example, James's will might say: "I give all the rest, residue and remainder of my estate to my daughter Lilly." Lilly would be the residual devisee and entitled to James's residuary estate. References Common law Wills and trusts
Affection or fondness is a "disposition or state of mind or body" commonly linked to a feeling or type of love. It has led to multiple branches in philosophy and psychology that discuss emotion, disease, influence, and state of being. Often, "affection" denotes more than mere goodwill or friendship. Writers on ethics generally use the word to refer to distinct states of feeling, both lasting and temporary. Some contrast it with passion as being free from the distinctively sensual element. Affection can elicit diverse emotional reactions such as embarrassment, disgust, pleasure, and annoyance. The emotional and physical effect of affection also varies between the giver and the receiver. Restricted definition Sometimes the term is restricted to emotional states directed towards living entities, including humans and animals. Affection is often compared with passion, stemming from the Greek word . Consequently, references to affection are found in the works of philosophers such as René Descartes, Baruch Spinoza, and early British ethicists. Despite these associations, it's commonly differentiated from passion on various grounds. Some definitions of affection exclude feelings of anxiety or heightened excitement, elements typically linked to passion. In this narrower context, the term holds significance in ethical frameworks, particularly concerning social or parental affections, forming a facet of moral duties and virtue. Ethical perspectives may hinge on whether affection is perceived as voluntary. Expression Affection can be communicated by looks, words, gestures, or touches. It conveys love and social connection. The five love languages explains how couples can communicate affections to each other. Affectionate behavior may have evolved from parental nurturing behavior due to its associations with hormonal rewards. Such affection has been shown to influence brain development in infants, especially their biochemical systems and prefrontal development. Affectionate gestures can become undesirable if they insinuate potential harm to one's welfare. However, when welcomed, such behavior can offer several health benefits. Some theories suggest that positive sentiments enhance individuals' inclination to engage socially, and the sense of closeness fostered by affection contributes to nurturing positive sentiments among them. Benefits of affection Affection exchange is an adaptive human behavior that benefits well-being. Expressing affection brings emotional, physical, and relational gains for people and their close connections. Sharing positive emotions yields health advantages like reduced stress hormones, lower cholesterol, lower blood pressure, and a stronger immune system. Expressing affection, not merely feeling affection, is internally rewarding. Even if not reciprocated, givers still experience its effects. Parental relationships Affectionate behavior is frequently considered an outcome of parental nurturing, tied to hormonal rewards. Both positive and negative parental actions may health issues in later life. Neglect and abuse result in poorer well-being and mental health, contrasting with affection's positive effects. A 2013 study highlighted the impact of early child abuse and lack of affection on physical health. Affectionism Affectionism is a school of thought that considers affections to be of central importance. Although it is not found in mainstream Western philosophy, it does exist in Indian philosophy. See also References External links Emotions Love Personal life Phrenology
In law, affiliation (from Latin , "to adopt as a son") was previously the term to describe legal establishment of paternity. The following description, for the most part, was written in the early 20th century, and it should be understood as a historical document. Affiliation procedures in England In England a number of statutes on the subject have been passed, the chief being the Bastardy Act of the Parliament of 1845, and the Bastardy Laws Amendment Acts of 1872 and 1873. The mother of a bastard may summon the putative father to petty sessions within 12 months of the birth (or at any later time if he is proved to have contributed to the child's support within 12 months after the birth), and the justices, after hearing evidence on both sides, may, if the mother's evidence be corroborated in some material particular, adjudge the man to be the putative father of the child, and order him to pay a sum not exceeding five shillings a week for its maintenance, together with a sum for expenses incidental to the birth, or the funeral expenses, if it has died before the date of order, and the costs of the proceedings. An order ceases to be valid after the child reaches the age of 13, but the justices (also referred to as Gold writers under these circumstances) may in the order direct the payments to be continued until the child is 16 years of age. An appeal to quarter sessions is open to the defendant, and a further appeal on questions of law to the King's Bench by rule nisi or certiorari. Should the child afterwards become chargeable to the parish, the sum due by the father may be received by the parish officer. When a bastard child, whose mother has not obtained an order, becomes chargeable to the parish, the guardians may proceed against the putative father for a contribution. Any woman who is single, a widow, or a married woman living apart from her husband, may make an application for a summons, and it is immaterial where the child is begotten, provided it is born in England. An application for a summons may be made before the birth of the child, but in this case, the statement of the mother must be in the form of a sworn deposition. The defendant must be over 14 years of age. No agreement on the part of the woman to take a sum down in a discharge of the liability of the father is a bar to the making of an affiliation order. In the case of twins, it is usual to make separate applications and obtain separate summonses. The Summary Jurisdiction Act (1879) makes due provision for the enforcement of an order of affiliation. In the case of soldiers an affiliation order cannot be enforced in the usual way, but by the Army Act (1881), if an order has been made against a soldier of the regular forces, and a copy of such order be sent to the secretary of state, he may order a portion of the soldier's pay to be retained. There is no such special legislation with regard to sailors in the Royal Navy. Affiliation procedures in other countries In the British colonies, and in the states of the United States (except for California, Idaho, Missouri, Oregon, Texas and Utah), there is some procedure (usually termed filiation) akin to that described above, by means of which a mother can obtain a contribution to the support of her illegitimate child from the putative father. The amount ordered to be paid may subsequently be increased or diminished (1905; 94 N.Y. Supplt. 372). On the continent of Europe, however, the legislation of the various countries differs rather widely. France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Italy, Russia, Serbia and the Canton of Geneva provide no means of inquiry into the paternity of an illegitimate child, and consequently all support of the child falls upon the mother; on the other hand, Germany, Austria, Norway, Sweden, Denmark and the majority of the Swiss cantons provide for an inquiry into the paternity of illegitimate children, and the law casts a certain amount of responsibility upon the father. Affiliation, in France, is a term applied to a species of adoption by which the person adopted succeeds equally with other heirs to the acquired, but not to the inherited, property of the deceased. In India, affiliation cases are decided by section 125 of Criminal Procedure Code. According to this section - among other things - if a person having sufficient means neglects or refuses to maintain his illegitimate child, a magistrate of the first class may, upon proof of such neglect or refusal, order such person to make a monthly allowance for the maintenance of such child. See also Adoption Illegitimacy Paternity (law) Poor Laws References External links Family law Wills and trusts
Affinity may refer to: Commerce, finance and law Affinity (law), kinship by marriage Affinity analysis, a market research and business management technique Affinity Credit Union, a Saskatchewan-based credit union Affinity Equity Partners, an Asian private equity firm Affinity fraud, a type of scam targeting a specific demographic Affinity marketing, a method of extending market reach by forming partnerships and cross-selling relationships Religion and belief Affinity (canon law), a kinship arising from the sexual intercourse of a man and a woman Affinity (Christian organisation), network of conservative evangelical churches and Christian agencies Affinity group, a private, non-commercial and non-governmental organisation formed around a shared interest or goal Science and technology Affinity, the UK's first road-legal solar car, built by Cambridge University Eco Racing Affinity (mathematics), an affine transformation preserving collinearity Affinity (pharmacology), a characterisation of protein-ligand binding strength Affinity (sociology), a shared interest and commitment between persons in groups and/or willingness to associate Affinity (taxonomy), a suggestion of common descent or type Affinity chromatography, method of separating a biomolecule from a mixture Affinity electrophoresis, general name for many analytical methods used in biochemistry and biotechnology Affinity laws, laws used in hydraulics to express relationships between variables involved in fan or pump performance Binding affinity, a measure of the interaction of ligands with their binding sites Chemical affinity, used to describe or characterise elements' or compounds' readiness to form bonds Electron affinity, energy released on formation of anions Processor affinity, a computing term for the assignment of a task to a given core of a multicore CPU Serif Europe's Affinity series of programs Affinity Designer, a vector illustration editor Affinity Photo, a raster graphics editor Affinity Publisher, a desktop publishing application Media-related Music Affinity (band), a jazz/rock band Affinity (Affinity album) Affinity (Bill Evans album) Affinity (Haken album) Affinity (Oscar Peterson album) Affinity (EP), a 2013 EP by the English band Press to Meco Johnny Alegre A, a jazz collective based in Manila Other media Affinity (novel), a 1999 novel by Sarah Waters Affinity (film), a 2008 feature film based on the novel "Affinity" (Stargate SG-1), an episode from season 8 of the TV sci-fi spin-off series Stargate SG-1 Elective Affinities, a novel by Goethe Other uses Affinity (medieval), late medieval retainers of a monarch in "bastard feudalism" Affinity, West Virginia See also Affine (disambiguation) Affine transformation, a type of transformation applied to a geometry Refining, also known as "affining" Afinidad (disambiguation)
In many legal jurisdictions related to English common law, affray is a public order offence consisting of the fighting of one or more persons in a public place to the terror (in ) of ordinary people. Depending on their actions, and the laws of the prevailing jurisdiction, those engaged in an affray may also render themselves liable to prosecution for assault, unlawful assembly, or riot; if so, it is for one of these offences that they are usually charged. United Kingdom England and Wales The common law offence of affray was abolished for England and Wales on 1 April 1987. Affray is now a statutory offence that is triable either way. It is created by section 3 of the Public Order Act 1986 which provides: The term "violence" is defined by section 8. Section 3(6) once provided that a constable could arrest without warrant anyone he reasonably suspected to be committing affray, but that subsection was repealed by paragraph 26(2) of Schedule 7 to, and Schedule 17 to, the Serious Organised Crime and Police Act 2005, which includes more general provisions for police to make arrests without warrant. The mens rea of affray is that person is guilty of affray only if he intends to use or threaten violence or is aware that his conduct may be violent or threaten violence. The offence of affray has been used by HM Government to address the problem of drunken or violent individuals who cause serious trouble on airliners. In R v Childs & Price (2015), the Court of Appeal quashed a murder verdict and replaced it with affray, having dismissed an allegation of common purpose. Northern Ireland Affray is a serious offence for the purposes of Chapter 3 of the Criminal Justice (Northern Ireland) Order 2008. Australia In New South Wales, section 93C of Crimes Act 1900 defines that a person will be guilty of affray if he or she threatens unlawful violence towards another and his or her conduct is such as would cause a person of reasonable firmness present at the scene to fear for his or her personal safety. A person will only be guilty of affray if the person intends to use or threaten violence or is aware that his or her conduct may be violent or threaten violence. The maximum penalty for an offence of affray contrary to section 93C is a period of imprisonment of 10 years. In Queensland, section 72 of the Criminal Code of 1899 defines affray as taking part in a fight in a public highway or taking part in a fight of such a nature as to alarm the public in any other place to which the public have access. This definition is taken from that in the English Criminal Code Bill of 1880, cl. 96. Section 72 says "Any person who takes part in a fight in a public place, or takes part in a fight of such a nature as to alarm the public in any other place to which the public have access, commits a misdemeanour. Maximum penalty—1 year’s imprisonment." India The Indian Penal Code (sect. 159) adopts the old English common law definition of affray, with the substitution of "actual disturbance of the peace for causing terror to the lieges". New Zealand In New Zealand affray has been codified as "fighting in a public place" by section 7 of the Summary Offences Act 1981. South Africa Under the Roman-Dutch law in force in South Africa affray falls within the definition of vis publica. United States In the United States, the English common law as to affray applies, subject to certain modifications by the statutes of particular states. See also Assault Battery Combat References Blackstones Police Manual Volume 4: General police duties, Fraser Simpson (2006). pp. 247. Oxford University Press. Crimes Legal terminology
Afghan Turkestan, also known as Southern Turkestan, is a region in northern Afghanistan, on the border with the former Soviet republics of Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan. In the 19th century, there was a province in Afghanistan named Turkestan with Mazari Sharif as provincial capital. The province incorporated the territories of the present-day provinces of Balkh, Kunduz, Jowzjan, Sar-e Pol, and Faryab. In 1890, Qataghan-Badakhshan Province was separated from Turkestan Province. It was later abolished by Emir Abdur Rahman. The whole territory of Afghan Turkestan, from the junction of the Kokcha river with the Amu Darya on the north-east to the province of Herat on the south-west, was some in length, with an average width from the Russian frontier to the Hindu Kush of . It thus comprised about or roughly two-ninths of the former Kingdom of Afghanistan. Geography The area is agriculturally poor except in the river valleys, being rough and mountainous towards the south, but subsiding into undulating wastes and pasture-lands towards the Karakum Desert. The province included the khanates of Kunduz, Tashkurgan, Balkh, and Akcha in the east and the four khanates or Chahar Vilayet ("four domains") of Saripul, Shibarghan, Andkhoy (city), and Maymana in the west. Demographics The bulk of the people are Uzbek and Turkmen with large concentrations of Hazara, Tajik and Pashtun. History Ancient Balkh or Bactria was an integral part of Bactria–Margiana Archaeological Complex, and was occupied by Indo-Iranians. In the 5th century BCE, it became a province of the Achaemenian Empire and later became part of the Seleucid Empire. About 250 BC Diodotus (Theodotus), governor of Bactria under the Seleucidae, declared his independence, and commenced the history of the Greco-Bactrian dynasties, which succumbed to Parthian and nomadic movements about 126 BC. After this came a Buddhist era which has left its traces in the gigantic sculptures at Bamian and the rock-cut topes of Haibak. The district was devastated by Genghis Khan, and has never since fully recovered its prosperity. For about a century it belonged to the Delhi empire, and then fell into Uzbek hands. In the 18th century it formed part of the dominion of Ahmad Shah Durrani, and so remained under his son Timur. But under the fratricidal wars of Timur's sons the separate khanates fell back under the independent rule of various Uzbek chiefs. At the beginning of the 19th century they belonged to Bukhara; but under the emir Dost Mohammad, the Afghans recovered Balkh and Tashkurgan in 1850, Akcha and the four western khanates in 1855, and Kunduz in 1859. Dost Mohammad's earliest campaigns begin in the 1830's in the Afghan Turkestan Campaign of 1838-39. The sovereignty over Andkhoy, Shibarghan, Saripul, and Maymana was in dispute between Bukhara and Kabul until settled by the Anglo-Russian agreement of 1873 in favour of the Afghan claim. Under the strong rule of Abdur Rahman these outlying territories were closely welded to Kabul; but after the accession of Habibullah the bonds once more relaxed. In the late 19th and 20th centuries, many ethnic Pashtuns either voluntarily or involuntarily settled in Afghan Turkestan. In 1890, the district of Qataghan and Badakhshan was divided from Afghan Turkestan and made into the Qataghan-Badakhshan Province. Administration of the province was assigned to the Northern Bureau in Kabul. See also Chinese Turkestan Russian Turkestan Notes References Further reading Former provinces of Afghanistan Turkestan Regions of Afghanistan Turkic toponyms
Abd ar-Rahman II () (792–852) was the fourth Umayyad Emir of Córdoba in al-Andalus from 822 until his death. A vigorous and effective frontier warrior, he was also well known as a patron of the arts. Abd ar-Rahman was born in Toledo, the son of Emir al-Hakam I. In his youth he took part in the so-called "massacre of the ditch", when 72 nobles and hundreds of their attendants were massacred at a banquet by order of al-Hakam. He succeeded his father as Emir of Córdoba in 822 and for 20 years engaged in nearly continuous warfare against Alfonso II of Asturias, whose southward advance he halted. In 825, he had a new city, Murcia, built, and proceeded to settle it with Arab loyalists to ensure stability. In 835, he confronted rebellious citizens of Mérida by having a large internal fortress built. In 837, he suppressed a revolt of Christians and Jews in Toledo with similar measures. He issued a decree by which the Christians were forbidden to seek martyrdom, and he had a Christian synod held to forbid martyrdom. In 839 or 840, he sent an embassy under al-Ghazal to Constantinople to sign a pact with the Byzantine Empire against the Abbasids. Another embassy that was sent an may have either went to Ireland or Denmark, likely encouraging trade in fur and slaves. In 844, Abd ar-Rahman repulsed an assault by Vikings who had disembarked in Cádiz, conquered Seville (with the exception of its citadel) and attacked Córdoba itself. Where Abderrahman || defeated the Vikings by letting them into the city and surrounded with best of his army to slaughter them to the end. Thereafter he constructed a fleet and naval arsenal at Seville to repel future raids. He responded to William of Septimania's requests of assistance in his struggle against Charles the Bald who had claimed lands William considered to be his. Abd ar-Rahman was famous for his public building program in Córdoba. He made additions to the Mosque–Cathedral of Córdoba. A vigorous and effective frontier warrior, he was also well known as a patron of the arts. He was also involved in the execution of the "Martyrs of Córdoba", and was a patron of the great composer Ziryab. He died in 852 in Córdoba References Emirs of Córdoba 792 births 852 deaths People from Toledo, Spain 9th-century monarchs in Europe 8th-century Arab people 9th-century Arab people
Abd ar-Rahman IV Mortada () was the Caliph of Córdoba in the Umayyad dynasty in Al-Andalus, succeeding Sulayman ibn al-Hakam, in 1018. That same year, he was murdered at Cadiz while fleeing from a battle in which he had been deserted by the very supporters which had brought him into power. His brief reign was similar to that of Abd ar-Rahman V Mostadir. References |- Umayyad caliphs of Córdoba 1018 deaths 11th-century caliphs of Córdoba Year of birth unknown
Abd ar-Rahman V () was an Umayyad Caliph of Córdoba. In the agony of the Umayyad dynasty in the Al-Andalus (Moorish Iberia), two princes of the house were proclaimed Caliph of Córdoba for a very short time, Abd-ar-Rahman IV Mortada (1017), and Abd-ar-Rahman V Mostadir (1023–1024). Both were the mere puppets of factions, who deserted them at once. Abd-ar-Rahman IV was murdered the same year he was proclaimed at Cadiz, in flight from a battle in which he had been deserted by his supporters. Abd-ar-Rahman V was proclaimed caliph in December 1023 at Córdoba, and murdered in January 1024 by a mob of unemployed workmen, headed by one of his own cousins. References 1001 births 1024 deaths Umayyad caliphs of Córdoba 11th-century caliphs of Córdoba
Abdera was an ancient Carthaginian and Roman port on a hill above the modern Adra on the southeastern Mediterranean coast of Spain. It was located between Malaca (now Málaga) and Carthago Nova (now Cartagena) in the district inhabited by the Bastuli. Name Abdera shares its name with a city in Thrace and another in North Africa. Its coins bore the inscription (). The first element in the name appears to be the Punic word for "servant" or "slave"; the second element seems shared by the Phoenician names for Gadir (now Cadiz) and Cythera but of unclear meaning. It appears in Greek sources as tà Ábdēra () and Aúdēra (), Ábdara (), and tò Ábdēron (). History Abdera was founded in the 8th century BCE as a Phoenician colony. It became a Carthaginian trading station and, after a period of decline, became one of the more important towns in the Roman province of Hispania Baetica. Tiberius seems to have made the place a Roman colony. Coins The most ancient coins bear its name with the head of Melqart and a tuna. Coins from the time of Tiberius show the town's main temple with two erect tunas as its columns. Early Roman coins were bilingual with Latin inscriptions on one side stating the name of the emperor and the town and with Punic text on the other side simply stating the name of the town. Notes References Citations Bibliography . Further reading Phoenician colonies in Spain Former populated places in Spain Archaeological sites in Andalusia Roman sites in Spain
Abdera () is a municipality in the Xanthi regional unit of Thrace, Greece. In classical antiquity, it was a major Greek polis on the Thracian coast. The ancient polis is to be distinguished from the municipality, which was named in its honor. The polis lay 17 km east-northeast of the mouth of the Nestos River, almost directly opposite the island of Thasos. It was a colony placed in previously unsettled Thracian territory, not then a part of Hellas, during the age of Greek colonization. The city that developed from it became of major importance in ancient Greece. After the 4th centuryAD it declined, contracted to its acropolis, and was abandoned, never to be reoccupied except by archaeologists. During the Early Middle Ages, a new settlement emerged near the ancient city. It was called Polystylon (), and later considered as the New Abdera (). In 2011 the modern municipality of Abdera was synoecized from three previous municipalities comprising a number of modern settlements. The ancient site remains in it as a ruin. The municipality of Abdera has 19,005 inhabitants (2011). The seat of the municipality is the town Genisea. Name The name Abdera is of Phoenician origin and was shared in antiquity by Abdera, Spain and a town near Carthage in North Africa. It was variously Hellenized as (Ábdēra), (Aúdēra), (Ábdara), (Ábdēron), and (Ábdēros), before being Latinized as Abdera. Greek legend attributed the name to an eponymous Abderus who fell nearby and was memorialized by Hercules's founding of a city at the location. The present-day town is written Avdira () and pronounced in modern Greek. History Antiquity The Phoenicians apparently began the settlement of Abdera at some point before the mid-7th century and the town long maintained Phoenician standards in its coinage. The Greek settlement was begun as a failed colony from Klazomenai, traditionally dated to 654BC. (Evidence in 7th-century-BC Greek pottery tends to support the traditional date but the exact timing remains uncertain.) Herodotus reports that the leader of the colony had been Timesios but, within his generation, the Thracians had expelled the colonists. Timesios was subsequently honored as a local protective spirit by the later Abderans from Teos. Others recount various legends about this colony. Plutarch and Aelian relate that Timesios grew insufferable to his colonists because of his desire to do everything by himself; when one of their children let him know how they all really felt, he quit the settlement in disgust; modern scholars have tried to split the difference between the two accounts of early Abdera's failure by giving the latter as the reason for Timesios's having left Klazomenai. Strabo describes Abdera as "a Thracian city" at the time of Anacreon and the migration of people from Teos to that area. The successful colonisation occurred in 544BC, when the majority of the people of Teos (including the poet Anacreon) migrated to Abdera to escape the Persian yoke. The chief coin type, a griffon, is identical with that of Teos; the rich silver coinage is noted for the beauty and variety of its reverse types. In 513 and 512BC, the Persians, under Darius conquered Abdera, by which time the city seems to have become a place of considerable importance, and is mentioned as one of the cities which had the expensive honour of entertaining the great king on his march into Greece. In 492BC, after the Ionian Revolt, the Persians again conquered Abdera, again under Darius I but led by his general Mardonius. On his flight after the Battle of Salamis, Xerxes stopped at Abdera and acknowledged the hospitality of its inhabitants by presenting them with a tiara and scimitar of gold. Thucydides mentions Abdera as the westernmost limit of the Odrysian kingdom when at its height at the beginning of the Peloponnesian war. It later became part of the Delian League and fought on the side of Athens in the Peloponnesian war. Abdera was a wealthy city, the third richest in the League, due to its status as a prime port for trade with the interior of Thrace and the Odrysian kingdom. In 408BC, Abdera was reduced under the power of Athens by Thrasybulus, then one of the Athenian generals in that quarter. A valuable prize, the city was repeatedly sacked: by the Triballi in 376BC, Philip II of Macedon in 350BC; later by Lysimachos of Thrace, the Seleucids, the Ptolemies, and again by the Macedonians. In 170BC the Roman armies and those of Eumenes II of Pergamon besieged and sacked it. The town seems to have declined in importance after the middle of the 4th centuryBC. Cicero ridicules the city as a byword for stupidity in his letters to Atticus, writing of a debate in the Senate, "Here was Abdera, but I wasn't silent" ("Hic, Abdera non tacente me"). The Philogelos, a Greek-language joke book compiled in the 4th century AD, has a chapter dedicated to jokes about dumb Abderans. Nevertheless, the city counted among its citizens the philosophers Democritus, Protagoras and Anaxarchus, historian and philosopher Hecataeus of Abdera, and the lyric poet Anacreon. Pliny the Elder speaks of Abdera as being in his time a free city. Abdera had flourished especially in ancient times mainly for two reasons: because of the large area of their territory and their highly strategic position. The city controlled two great road passages (one of Nestos river and other through the mountains north of Xanthi). Furthermore, from their ports passed the sea road, which from Troas led to the Thracian and then the Macedonian coast. The ruins of the town may still be seen on Cape Balastra (40°56'1.02"N 24°58'21.81"E); they cover seven small hills, and extend from an eastern to a western harbor; on the southwestern hills are the remains of the medieval settlement of Polystylon (). Since the 9th century, Byzantine Polystylon was an episcopal see, under the jurisdiction of the metropolitan bishop of Philippi. By the end of the 14th century it fell under the Ottoman rule. Modern Avdira as a modern administrative unit (community) was established in 1924, and consisted of the villages Avdira, Myrodato (Kalfalar), Pezoula, Giona, Veloni and Mandra, but Myrodato and Mandra became separate communities in 1928. The municipality Avdira was formed in 1997 by the merger of the former communities Avdira, Mandra, Myrodato and Nea Kessani. At the 2011 local government reform it merged with the former municipalities Selero and Vistonida, and the town Genisea became its seat. The municipality has an area of 352.047 km2, the municipal unit 161.958 km2. The municipal unit Avdira is subdivided into the communities Avdira, Mandra, Myrodato and Nea Kessani. The community Avdira consists of the settlements Avdira, Giona, Lefkippos, Pezoula and Skala. Landmarks Landmarks of Abdera include the Archaeological Museum of Abdera, and Agios Ioannis Beach (also Paralia Avdiron) near the village Lefkippos. Famous people Democritus Protagoras Hecateus Nicaenetus See also List of ancient Greek cities Notes References Citations Sources External links . Municipalities of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace Populated places in Xanthi (regional unit) Ionian colonies in Thrace Ancient Greek cities Members of the Delian League Populated places established in the 7th century BC Greek city-states Populated places in ancient Thrace Phoenician colonies in Greece
Apollos () was a 1st-century Alexandrian Jewish Christian mentioned several times in the New Testament. A contemporary and colleague of Paul the Apostle, he played an important role in the early development of the churches of Ephesus and Corinth. Biblical account Acts of the Apostles Apollos is first mentioned as a Christian preacher who had come to Ephesus (probably in AD 52 or 53), where he is described as "being fervent in spirit: he spoke and taught accurately the things concerning Jesus, though he knew only the baptism of John". Priscilla and Aquila, a Jewish Christian couple who had come to Ephesus with the Apostle Paul, instructed Apollos: "When Priscilla and Aquila heard him, they took him aside and explained to him the way of God more adequately." The differences between the two understandings probably related to the Christian baptism, since Apollos "knew only the baptism of John". Later, during Apollos' absence, the writer of the Acts of the Apostles recounts an encounter between Paul and some disciples at Ephesus: Before Paul's arrival, Apollos had moved from Ephesus to Achaia and was living in Corinth, the provincial capital of Achaia. Acts reports that Apollos arrived in Achaia with a letter of recommendation from the Ephesian Christians and "greatly helped those who through grace had believed, for he powerfully refuted the Jews in public, showing by the Scriptures that the Christ was Jesus. 1 Corinthians Paul's First Epistle to the Corinthians (AD 55) mentions Apollos as an important figure at Corinth. Paul describes Apollos' role at Corinth: I planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the growth. Paul's Epistle refers to a schism between four parties in the Corinthian church, of which two attached themselves to Paul and Apollos respectively, using their names (the third and fourth were Peter, identified as Cephas, and Jesus Christ himself). It is possible, though, that, as Msgr. Ronald Knox suggests, the parties were actually two, one claiming to follow Paul, the other claiming to follow Apollos. "It is surely probable that the adherents of St. Paul [...] alleged in defence of his orthodoxy the fact that he was in full agreement with, and in some sense commissioned by, the Apostolic College. Hence 'I am for Cephas'. [...] What reply was the faction of Apollos to make? It devised an expedient which has been imitated by sectaries more than once in later times; appealed behind the Apostolic College itself to him from whom the Apostolic College derived its dignity; 'I am for Christ'." Paul states that the schism arose because of the Corinthians' immaturity in faith. Apollos was a devout Jew born in Alexandria. Apollos' origin in Alexandria has led to speculations that he would have preached in the allegorical style of Philo. Theologian Jerome Murphy-O'Connor, for example, commented: "It is difficult to imagine that an Alexandrian Jew ... could have escaped the influence of Philo, the great intellectual leader ... particularly since the latter seems to have been especially concerned with education and preaching." There is no indication that Apollos favored or approved an overestimation of his person. Paul urged him to go to Corinth at the time, but Apollos declined, stating that he would come later when he had an opportunity. Epistle to Titus Apollos is mentioned one more time in the New Testament. In the Epistle to Titus, the recipient is exhorted to "speed Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their way". Extrabiblical information Jerome states that Apollos was so dissatisfied with the division at Corinth that he retired to Crete with Zenas; and that once the schism had been healed by Paul's letters to the Corinthians, Apollos returned to the city and became one of its elders. Less probable traditions assign to him the bishopric of Duras, or of Iconium in Phrygia, or of Caesarea. Pope Benedict XVI suggested that the name "Apollos" was probably short for Apollonius or Apollodorus. He also suggested there were those in Corinth "...fascinated by [Apollo's] way of speaking...." Significance Martin Luther and some modern scholars have proposed Apollos as the author of the Epistle to the Hebrews, rather than Paul or Barnabas. Both Apollos and Barnabas were Jewish Christians with sufficient intellectual authority. The Pulpit Commentary treats Apollos' authorship of Hebrews as "generally believed". Other than this, there are no known surviving texts attributed to Apollos. Apollos is regarded as a saint by several Christian churches, including the Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod, which hold a commemoration for him, together with saints Aquila and Priscilla, on 13 February. Apollos is considered one of the 70 apostles and his feast day is December 8 in the Eastern Orthodox church. Apollos is not to be confused with St. Apollo of Egypt, a monk who died in 395 and whose feast day is January 25. Apollos does not have a feast day of his own in the traditional Roman Martyrology, nor is he reputed to have ever been a monk (as most monks come after St. Anthony the Great). Notes References Articles in Encyclopaedia Biblica Herzog-Hauck, Realencyklopadie The Jewish Encyclopedia (Jewish Encyclopedia: Apollos) James Hastings, Dictionary of the Bible Karl Heinrich von Weizsäcker, Das apostolische Zeitalter (1886) A. C. McGiffert, History of Christianity in the Apostolic Age. Initial text from Schaff-Herzog Encyclopedia of Religion 1st-century bishops in Roman Achaea Christianity in Roman Corinth Early Jewish Christians People in the Pauline epistles Seventy disciples Converts to Christianity from Judaism Biblical apostles First Epistle to the Corinthians
The Community acquis or acquis communautaire (; ), sometimes called the EU acquis and often shortened to acquis, is the accumulated legislation, legal acts and court decisions that constitute the body of European Union law that came into being since 1993. The term is French: acquis meaning "that which has been acquired or obtained", and communautaire meaning "of the community". Chapters During the process of the enlargement of the European Union, the acquis was divided into 31 chapters for the purpose of negotiation between the EU and the candidate member states for the fifth enlargement (the ten that joined in 2004 plus Romania and Bulgaria which joined in 2007). These chapters were: Free movement of goods Free movement of persons Freedom to provide services Free movement of capital Company law Competition policy Agriculture Fisheries Transport policy Taxation Economic and Monetary Union Statistics Social policy and employment Energy Industrial policy Small and medium-sized enterprises Science and research Education and training Telecommunication and information technologies Culture and audio-visual policy Regional policy and co-ordination of structural instruments Environment Consumers and health protection Cooperation in the field of Justice and Home Affairs Customs union External relations Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) Financial control Financial and budgetary provisions Institutions Others For the negotiations with Croatia (which joined in 2013), Iceland, Turkey, Montenegro, Serbia and in the future, with North Macedonia, Albania, Ukraine, Moldova and Bosnia and Herzegovina (candidate countries), the acquis is split up into 35 chapters instead, with the purpose of better balancing between the chapters: (dividing the most difficult ones into separate chapters for easier negotiation, uniting some easier chapters, moving some policies between chapters, as well as renaming a few of them in the process) Free movement of goods Freedom of movement for workers Right of establishment and freedom to provide services Free movement of capital Public procurement Company law Intellectual property law Competition policy Financial services Information society and media Agriculture and rural development Food safety, veterinary and phytosanitary policy Fisheries Transport policy Energy Taxation Economic and monetary policy Statistics Social policy and employment (including anti-discrimination and equal opportunities for women and men) Enterprise and industrial policy Trans-European networks Regional policy and co-ordination of structural instruments Judiciary and fundamental rights Justice, freedom and security Science and research Education and culture Environment Consumer and health protection Customs union External relations Foreign, security and defence policy Financial control Financial and budgetary provisions Institutions Other issues Correspondence between chapters of the 5th and the 6th Enlargement: Such negotiations usually involved agreeing transitional periods before new member states needed to implement the laws of the European Union fully and before they and their citizens acquired full rights under the acquis. Terminology The term acquis is also used to describe laws adopted under the Schengen Agreement, prior to its integration into the European Union legal order by the Treaty of Amsterdam, in which case one speaks of the Schengen acquis. The term acquis has been borrowed by the World Trade Organization Appellate Body, in the case Japan – Taxes on Alcoholic Beverages, to refer to the accumulation of General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and WTO law ("acquis gattien"), though this usage is not well established. It has been used to describe the achievements of the Council of Europe (an international organisation unconnected with the European Union): It has also been applied to the body of "principles, norms and commitments" of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE): The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) introduced the concept of the OECD Acquis in its "Strategy for enlargement and outreach", May 2004. See also Official Journal of the European Union Primacy of European Union law References External links EUR-Lex: European Union Law. JRC-Acquis, Aligned multilingual parallel corpus: 23,000 Acquis-related texts per language, available in 22 languages. Total size: 1 Billion words. Translation Memory of the EU-Acquis: Up to 1 Million translation units each, for 231 language pairs. European Union constitutional law
An antacid is a substance which neutralizes stomach acidity and is used to relieve heartburn, indigestion or an upset stomach. Some antacids have been used in the treatment of constipation and diarrhea. Marketed antacids contain salts of aluminium, calcium, magnesium, or sodium. Some preparations contain a combination of two salts, such as magnesium carbonate and aluminium hydroxide (e.g. hydrotalcite). Medical uses Antacids are available over the counter and are taken by mouth to quickly relieve occasional heartburn, the major symptom of gastroesophageal reflux disease and indigestion. Treatment with antacids alone is symptomatic and only justified for minor symptoms. Alternative uses for antacids include constipation, diarrhea, hyperphosphatemia, and urinary alkalization. Some antacids are also used as an adjunct to pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy in the treatment of pancreatic insufficiency. Non-particulate antacids (sodium citrate) increase gastric pH with little or no effect on gastric volume, and therefore may see some limited use in pre-operative procedures. Sodium citrate should be given within 1 hour of surgery to be the most effective. Side effects Conventional effervescent tablets contain a significant amount of sodium and are associated with increased odds of adverse cardiovascular events according to a 2013 study. Alternative sodium-free formulations containing magnesium salts may cause diarrhea, whereas those containing calcium or aluminum may cause constipation. Rarely, long-term use of calcium carbonate may cause kidney stones. Long-term use of antacids containing aluminum may increase the risk of developing osteoporosis. In vitro studies have found a potential for acid rebound to occur due to antacid overuse, however the significance of this finding has been called into question. Properties of antacids When an excess amount of acid is produced in the stomach, the natural mucous barrier that protects the lining of the stomach can degrade, leading to pain and irritation. There is also potential for the development of acid reflux, which can cause pain and damage to the esophagus. Antacids contain alkaline ions that chemically neutralize stomach gastric acid, reducing damage to the stomach lining and esophagus, and relieving pain. Some antacids also inhibit pepsin, an enzyme that can damage the esophagus in acid reflux. Antacids do not directly inhibit acid secretion, and thus are distinct from acid-reducing drugs like H2-receptor antagonists or proton pump inhibitors. Antacids do not kill the bacteria Helicobacter pylori, which causes most ulcers. Interactions Antacids are known to interact with several oral medications, including fluoroquinolone and tetracycline antibiotics, iron, itraconazole, and prednisone. Metal chelation is responsible for some of these interactions (e.g. fluoroquinolones, tetracyclines), leading to decreased absorption of the chelated drug. Some interactions may be due to the pH increase observed in the stomach following antacid ingestion, leading to increased absorption of weak acids, and decreased absorption of weak bases. Antacids also cause an increase in pH of the urine (alkalization), which may cause increased blood concentrations of weak bases, and increased excretion of weak acids. A proposed method to mitigate the effects of stomach acidity and chelation on drug absorption is to space out the administration of antacids with interacting medications, however this method has not been well studied for drugs affected by urine alkalization. There are concerns regarding interactions between delayed-release tablets and antacids, as antacids may increase the stomach pH to a point at which the coating of the delayed-release tablet will dissolve, leading to degradation of the drug if it is pH sensitive. Formulations Antacids may be formulated with other active ingredients such as simethicone to control gas, or alginic acid to act as a physical barrier to acid. Liquids Several liquid antacid preparations are marketed. Common liquid preparations include milk of magnesia and magnesium/aluminum combinations. A potential advantage of using a liquid preparation over a tablet is that liquids may provide quicker relief, however this may coincide with a shorter duration of action. Tablets Chewable tablets Chewable tablets are one of the most common forms of antacids, and are readily available over the counter. Upon reaching the stomach, the tablet powder will dissolve in the stomach acid, allowing the cations to be released and neutralize excess stomach acid. Common salts available in tablet form include those of calcium, magnesium, aluminum, and sodium. Some common American brand are Tums, Gaviscon chewable tablets, and Maalox chewable tablets. Effervescent tablets Effervescent tablets are tablets which are designed to dissolve in water, and then release carbon dioxide. Common ingredients include citric acid and sodium bicarbonate, which react when in contact with water to produce carbon dioxide. Effervescent antacids may also contain aspirin, sodium carbonate, or tartaric acid. Those containing aspirin may cause further gastric irritation and ulceration due to aspirin's effects on the mucous membrane of the stomach. Common American brands include Alka-Seltzer, Gaviscon, and Eno. References External links
An anti-diarrhoeal drug (or anti-diarrheal drug in American English) is any medication which provides symptomatic relief for diarrhoea. Types Electrolyte solutions, while not true antidiarrhoeals, are used to replace lost fluids and salts in acute cases. Bulking agents like methylcellulose, guar gum or plant fibre (bran, sterculia, isabgol, etc.) are used for diarrhoea in functional bowel disease and to control ileostomy output. Absorbents absorb toxic substances that cause infective diarrhoea, methylcellulose is an absorbent. Anti-inflammatory compounds such as bismuth subsalicylate. Anticholinergics reduce intestinal movement and are effective against both diarrhoea and accompanying cramping. Opioids' classical use besides pain relief is as an anti-diarrhoeal drug. Opioids have agonist actions on the intestinal opioid receptors, which when activated cause constipation. Drugs such as morphine or codeine can be used to relieve diarrhoea this way. A notable opioid for the purpose of relief of diarrhoea is loperamide which is only an agonist of the μ opioid receptors in the large intestine and does not have opioid affects in the central nervous system as it doesn't cross the blood–brain barrier in significant amounts. This enables loperamide to be used to the same benefit as other opioid drugs but without the CNS side effects or potential for abuse. Octreotide (somatostatin analogue) may be used in hospitalized patients to treat secretory diarrhea. See also ATC code A07 Antidiarrheals, intestinal anti-inflammatory/anti-infective agents References
Áed mac Cináeda (Modern Scottish Gaelic: Aodh mac Choinnich; ; Anglicized: Hugh; died 878) was a son of Cináed mac Ailpín. He became king of the Picts in 877, when he succeeded his brother Constantín mac Cináeda. He was nicknamed Áed of the White Flowers, the wing-footed () or the white-foot (). Sources The Chronicle of the Kings of Alba says of Áed: "Edus [Áed] held the same [i.e., the kingdom] for one year. The shortness of his reign has bequeathed nothing memorable to history. He was slain in the civitas of Nrurim." Nrurim is unidentified. The Annals of Ulster say that, in 878, "Áed mac Cináeda, king of the Picts, was killed by his associates." Tradition, reported by George Chalmers in his Caledonia (1807), and by the New Statistical Account (1834–1845), has it that the early-historic mound of the Cunninghillock by Inverurie is the burial place of Áed. This is based on reading Nrurim as Inruriu. A longer account is interpolated in Andrew of Wyntoun's Orygynale Cronykil of Scotland. This says that Áed reigned one year and was killed by his successor Giric in Strathallan and other king lists have the same report. It is uncertain which, if any, of the Prophecy of Berchán'''s kings should be taken to be Áed. William Forbes Skene presumed that the following verses referred to Áed:129. Another king will take [sovereignty]; small is the profit that he does not divide. Alas for Scotland thenceforward. His name will be the Furious.130. He will be but a short time over Scotland. The will be no [word uncertain] unplundered. Alas for Scotland, through the youth; alas for their books, alas for their bequests.131. He will be nine years in the kingdom. I shall tell you—it will be a tale of truth—he dies without bell, with communion, at evening, in a fatal pass. Áed's son, Constantín mac Áeda, became king in 900. See also Kingdom of Alba References Sources Anderson, Alan Orr, Early Sources of Scottish History A.D 500–1286, volume 1. Reprinted with corrections. Paul Watkins, Stamford, 1990. Anderson, Marjorie Ogilvie, Kings and Kingship in Early Scotland. Scottish Academic Press, Edinburgh, revised edition 1980. Duncan, A. A. M., The Kingship of the Scots 842–1292: Succession and Independence. Edinburgh University Press, Edinburgh, 2002. Smyth, Alfred P., Warlords and Holy Men: Scotland AD 80–1000.'' E.J. Arnold, London, 1984 (reprinted Edinburgh UP). External links The Chronicle of the Kings of Alba (CKA) Friends of Grampian Stones - history of Inverurie Second Statistical Account [vol. XII (County of Aberdeen), p. 681] Aed at the official website of the British monarchy 878 deaths 9th-century Scottish monarchs Burials at Iona Abbey House of Alpin Year of birth unknown Gaels
The Abencerrages or Abencerrajes (from the Arabic for "Saddler's Son") were a family or faction that is said to have held a prominent position in the Kingdom of Granada in the 15th century. The name appears to have been derived from Yussuf ben-Serragh, the head of the tribe in the time of Muhammed VII, Sultan of Granada (1370–1408), who did that sovereign good service in his struggles to retain the crown of which he was three times deprived. Little is known of the family with certainty. The Chambers Biographical Dictionary records that they arrived in Spain in the 8th century but the name is familiar from the romance by Ginés Pérez de Hita, Guerras civiles de Granada, which celebrates the feuds of the Abencerrages and the rival family of the Benedin (Arabic banu Edin), and the cruel treatment to which the former were subjected. J. P. de Florian's Gonsalve de Cordoue and Chateaubriand's Le dernier des Abencerrages are adaptations of Pérez de Hita's story. The story is told that one of the Abencerrages, having fallen in love with a lady of the royal family, was caught in the act of climbing up to her window. The assassinations were ordered by Ibrahim Benedin, who had a feud with the family. He was enraged and shut up the whole family in one of the halls of the Alhambra, and gave orders to kill them all. The apartment where this is said to have taken place is one of the most beautiful courts of the Alhambra, and is still called the Hall of the Abencerrages. Washington Irving in Tales of the Alhambra (1832) disagrees, saying the massacre was a fiction, but that a number of Abencerrages were killed in one of the battles at the time. Nonetheless, many poems and plays, the novella The Abencerraje and two operas (Les Abencérages, by Luigi Cherubini, and L'esule di Granata, by Giacomo Meyerbeer) mention the legend. Notes External links The Abencerrages–Part 17 of Washington Irving's Tales of the Alhambra Nasrid dynasty
Aberavon (Welsh: Aberafan) is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom since 2015 by Stephen Kinnock of the Welsh Labour Party. It includes the town of Aberavon, although the largest town in the constituency is Port Talbot. The constituency is set to be abolished, as part of the 2023 Periodic Review of Westminster constituencies and under the June 2023 final recommendations of the Boundary Commission for Wales for the next United Kingdom general election. Its wards is to be split between Aberafan Maesteg and Neath and Swansea East. History The constituency was created for the 1918 general election by the dividing of the Swansea District. With the exception of the first term, it has always been held by the Labour Party. Ramsay MacDonald, who became Labour's first Prime Minister in 1924, held the seat from 1922 to 1929. Its current MP, Stephen Kinnock, is the son of Neil Kinnock, who was Labour leader and Leader of the Opposition from 1983 to 1992. It is one of the most consistently safe seats for Labour; since the end of the Second World War, the Labour candidate has always won Aberavon with a majority at least 33%, and with the exception of 2015, the Labour candidate has also always won an overall majority of the vote in the seat. In 2015, Kinnock only won 48.9% of the vote in Aberavon, against a surge in the vote for the UKIP candidate; however, in 2017, Kinnock's vote share rose by 19.2 percentage points, the biggest increase in the Labour vote in the seat's history, and his majority increased to 50.4%, the highest for an Aberavon MP since 2001. The 2017 result also made Aberavon the safest Labour seat in Wales, however the seat saw a significant swing against Labour in 2019. Boundaries 1918–1950: The Borough of Aberavon, the Urban Districts of Briton Ferry, Glencorwg, Margam, and Porthcawl, and part of the Rural Districts of Neath and Penybont. 1950–1983: The Borough of Port Talbot, the Urban Districts of Glyncorrwg and Porthcawl, and part of the Rural District of Penybont. 1983–1997: The Borough of Afan, and the Borough of Neath wards nos. 3 and 6. 1997–2010: The Borough of Port Talbot, and the Borough of Neath wards of Briton Ferry East, Briton Ferry West, Coedffranc Central, Coedffranc North and Coedffranc West. 2010–present: The Neath Port Talbot County Borough electoral divisions of Aberavon, Baglan, Briton Ferry East, Briton Ferry West, Bryn and Cwmavon, Coedffranc Central, Coedffranc North, Coedffranc West, Cymmer, Glyncorrwg, Gwynfi, Margam, Port Talbot, Sandfields East, Sandfields West, and Tai-bach. The constituency is in South Wales, situated on the right bank of the River Afan, near its mouth in Swansea Bay. Commenting on the 1983 boundary changes to the constituency when moving the 2000 Loyal Address of the Blair Government in Parliament, the seat's then-MP Sir John Morris, who would retire at the next general election, said: Members of Parliament Elections Elections in the 1910s Jones withdrew in favour of Edwards on 13 December 1918. Elections in the 1920s Elections in the 1930s Elections in the 1940s Elections in the 1950s Elections in the 1960s Elections in the 1970s Elections in the 1980s Elections in the 1990s Elections in the 2000s Elections in the 2010s Of the 44 rejected ballots: 29 were either unmarked or it was uncertain who the vote was for. 14 voted for more than one candidate. 1 had writing or mark by which the voter could be identified. Of the 57 rejected ballots: 37 were either unmarked or it was uncertain who the vote was for. 20 voted for more than one candidate. Of the 57 rejected ballots: 41 were either unmarked or it was uncertain who the vote was for. 16 voted for more than one candidate. Of the 82 rejected ballots: 61 were either unmarked or it was uncertain who the vote was for. 19 voted for more than one candidate. 2 had writing or mark by which the voter could be identified. See also Aberavon (Senedd constituency) List of parliamentary constituencies in West Glamorgan List of parliamentary constituencies in Wales References External links Politics Resources (election results from 1922 onwards) Electoral Calculus (election results from 1955 onwards) 2017 Election House Of Commons Library 2017 Election report A Vision Of Britain Through Time (constituency elector numbers) Further reading Parliamentary constituencies in South Wales Politics of Neath Port Talbot Constituencies of the Parliament of the United Kingdom established in 1918 Ramsay MacDonald
Abercarn is a town and community in Caerphilly county borough, Wales. It is 10 miles (16 km) northwest of Newport on the A467 between Cwmcarn and Newbridge, within the historic boundaries of Monmouthshire. History An estate at Abercarn was owned by the ironmaster Richard Crawshay; in 1808, it passed to his son-in-law, the industrialist and politician Benjamin Hall. The district was traditionally associated with the coal mining collieries, ironworks and tinplate works of the South Wales coalfield and South Wales Valleys, although all have now closed; the town, which lies in the middle portion of the Ebbw valley, being situated on the south-eastern flank of the once great mining region of Glamorgan and Monmouthshire. On 11 September 1878, an underground explosion at the Prince of Wales Colliery killed 268 coal miners. Local government The area was part of the ancient Monmouthshire parish of Mynyddislwyn until the late 19th century. In 1892 a local board of health and local government district of Abercarn was formed. This became Abercarn urban district in 1894, governed by an urban district council of twelve members. Under the Local Government Act 1972 the urban district was abolished in 1974, becoming part of the borough of Islwyn, Gwent. Further local government organisation in 1996 placed the area in the county borough of Caerphilly. The former urban district corresponds to the three communities of Abercarn, Crumlin and Newbridge. Sport Abercarn is home to Abercarn Rugby Club which is a member of the Welsh Rugby Union, and to Abercarn United Football Club which plays in division one of the Gwent County League. Transport Bus The town is served by Stagecoach South Wales services including: X15 (from Newport to Brynmawr) 151 gold (from Newport to Blackwood Interchange) Rail The town is lies between Newbridge railway station and Crosskeys railway station, with the latter is slightly the closer of the two. Both are approximately a four-minute drive or thirty minute walk away. The town was formerly served by Abercarn railway station, which closed to passengers in April 1962. Military Following the formation of the Territorial Force in 1908, the Abercarn Territorial Cadet Company was formed within the wider Army Cadet Force. Following its formation the company was assigned to the 2nd Battalion, Monmouthshire Regiment. In 1912 the company was affiliated with the new formed 1st Cadet Battalion, The Monmouthshire Regiment. Notable people The surgeon Sir Clement Price Thomas (1893–1973) was born in Abercarn. He was famous for his 1951 operation on King George VI. Education Abercarn Primary School Ysgol Gymraeg Cwm Gwyddon (Welsh Medium Education School) References Towns in Caerphilly County Borough Local Government Districts created by the Local Government Act 1858 Communities in Caerphilly County Borough
An aberration is something that deviates from the normal way. Aberration may also refer to: Biology and medicine Form (zoology) or aberration, a rare mutant butterfly or moth wing pattern Cardiac aberrancy, aberration in the shape of the EKG signal Chromosome aberration, abnormal number or structure of chromosomes Entertainment Aberration, a DLC for the video game Ark: Survival Evolved Aberration (film), a 1997 horror film Aberration (EP), by Neurosis, 1989 Aberrations, or abbies, human-like creatures in the American TV series Wayward Pines Optics and physics Astronomical aberration, phenomenon wherein objects appear to move about their true positions in the sky Chromatic aberration, failure of a lens to focus all colors on the same point Defocus aberration, in which an image is out of focus Optical aberration, an imperfection in image formation by an optical system Relativistic aberration, the distortion of light at high velocities Spherical aberration, which occurs when light rays pass through a spherical lens near the edge See also Aberrant, a superhero role-playing game by White Wolf Game Studio Aberrancy (geometry), the non-circularity of a curve Abomination (Bible), a term used in Bible Freak (disambiguation)
Arthur William à Beckett (25 October 1844 – 14 January 1909) was an English journalist and intellectual. Biography He was a younger son of Gilbert Abbott à Beckett and Mary Anne à Beckett, brother of Gilbert Arthur à Beckett and educated at Felsted School. Besides fulfilling other journalistic engagements, Beckett was on the staff of Punch from 1874 to 1902, edited the Sunday Times 1891–1895, and the Naval and Military Magazine in 1896. He gave an account of his father and his own reminiscences in The à Becketts of Punch (1903). A childhood friend (and distant relative) of W. S. Gilbert, Beckett briefly feuded with Gilbert in 1869, but the two patched up the friendship, and Gilbert even later collaborated on projects with Beckett's brother. He was married to Suzanne Frances Winslow, daughter of the noted psychiatrist Forbes Benignus Winslow. He is buried in the churchyard at St Mary Magdalen, Mortlake. Works He published: Comic Guide to the Royal Academy, with his brother Gilbert (1863–64) Fallen Amongst Thieves (1869) Our Holiday in the Highlands (1874) The Shadow Witness and The Doom of Saint Quirec, with Francis Burnand (1875–76) The Ghost of Greystone Grange (1877) The Mystery of Mostyn Manor (1878) Traded Out; Hard Luck; Stone Broke; Papers from Pump Handle Court, by a Briefless Barrister (1884) Modern Arabian Nights (1885) The Member for Wrottenborough (1895) Greenroom Recollections (1896) The Modern Adam (1899) London at the End of the Century (1900) With F. C. Burnand he co-authored: The Doom of St. Querec (1875) The Shadow Witness (1876) He wrote for the theatre two three-act comedies: L.S.D. (Royalty Theatre, 1872); About Town (Court Theatre, 1873, it ran for over 150 nights); and On Strike (Court Theatre, 1873, a domestic drama in one act) ; Faded Flowers (The Haymarket); Long Ago (Royalty Theatre, 1882); From Father to Son (Liverpool, 1881, a dramatised version of his novel Fallen among Thieves written in 3 acts in cooperation with J. Palgrave Simpson). Notes References External links 1844 births 1909 deaths English male journalists English humorists Burials at St Mary Magdalen Roman Catholic Church Mortlake
Au, AU, au or a.u. may refer to: Science and technology Computing .au, the internet country code for Australia Au file format, Sun Microsystems' audio format Audio Units, a system level plug-in architecture from Apple Computer Adobe Audition, a sound editor program Windows Update or Automatic Updates, in Microsoft Windows Windows 10 Anniversary Update, of August 2016a Physics and chemistry Gold, symbol Au (from Latin ), a chemical element Absorbance unit, a reporting unit in spectroscopy Atomic units, a system of units convenient for atomic physics and other fields Ångström unit, a unit of length equal to 10−10 m or 0.1 nanometre. Astronomical unit, a unit of length often used in planetary systems astronomy, an approximation for the average distance between the Earth and the Sun Arbitrary unit, a relative placeholder unit for when the actual value of a measurement is unknown or unimportant ("a.u." is deprecated, use "arb. unit" instead) Arts and entertainment Music AU (band), an experimental pop group headed by Luke Wyland Au, a 2010 release by Scottish rock band Donaldson, Moir and Paterson Au a track on Some Time in New York City by an album by John Lennon & Yoko Ono and Elephant's Memory Magazines Alternative Ulster, a Northern Irish music magazine, now called AU A&U: America's AIDS Magazine, sponsor of the Christopher Hewitt Award Literature Alternative universe (fan fiction), fiction by fan authors that deliberately alters facts of the canonical universe written about. Other media Au Co, a fairy in Vietnamese mythology Age of Ultron, a 2013 series published by Marvel Comics A.U, a Chinese media franchise and brand Organizations au (mobile phone company), a mobile phone operator in Japan African Union, a continental union Americans United for Separation of Church and State Athletic Union, the union of sports clubs in a British university Austral Líneas Aéreas (IATA code AU) Auxiliary Units, specially trained, highly secret units created by the United Kingdom government during the Second World War AGROunia, an agrarian-socialist political party in Poland Universities Asia Ajou University in Suwon, Gyeonggi, South Korea Abasyn University in Peshawar, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan Andhra University in Visakhapatnam, AP, India Anhui University in Hefei, Anhui, China Aletheia University in New Taipei City, Taiwan Allahabad University in Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh, India Arellano University in Philippines Assumption University (Thailand) in Thailand Abhilashi University in Himachal Pradesh, India Adesh University in Bathinda, Punjab, India. Europe Aarhus University in Aarhus, Denmark Aberystwyth University in Aberystwyth, Wales, United Kingdom Akademia Umiejętności in Kraków, Poland Arden University in Coventry, England Oceania Auckland University in New Zealand North America Adelphi University in Garden City, New York Alfred University in Alfred, New York Algoma University in Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, Canada American University in Washington, D.C. Anaheim University in Anaheim, California Anderson University (Indiana) in Anderson, Indiana Anderson University (South Carolina) in Anderson, South Carolina Andrews University in Berrien Springs, Michigan Antioch University in Culver City, California Apollos University in Huntington Beach, California Arcadia University in Glenside, Pennsylvania Argosy University in Alameda, California Arizona University in Tucson, Arizona Ashland University in Ashland, Ohio Athabasca University in Athabasca, Alberta, Canada Auburn University in Auburn, Alabama Augsburg University in Minneapolis, Minnesota Aurora University in Aurora, Illinois Other Air University (disambiguation), various Air Force universities Places Aue (toponymy), a frequent element in Germanic toponymy Australia (ISO 3166 country code) Au, Guinea, Kankan Region Austria Austria (informal two-letter country code) Au, Vorarlberg, Bregenz, Austria Au am Leithaberge, Austria Au im Bregenzerwald, Austria Germany Au (Munich), Munich, Germany Au (Schwarzwald), Baden-Württemberg, Germany Au (squat), a building and cultural center in Frankfurt, Germany Au am Rhein, Germany Au in der Hallertau, Germany Switzerland Au, St. Gallen Au, Zürich Au peninsula Schloss Au, a château in Wädenswil Vehicles Ford Falcon (AU), a family car made in Australia Vought AU, a post-World War II US Marine Corps variant of the F4U Corsair aircraft Other uses Aú, a cartwheel in the Brazilian martial art of Capoeira Au (surname), a Chinese family name Au language Ab urbe condita (sometimes abbreviated as a.u.), Latin for "from the founding of the City" (Rome) a'u, the Hawaiian name for the Pacific blue marlin
Aberfoyle () is a village in the historic county and registration county of Perthshire and the council area of Stirling, Scotland. The settlement lies northwest of Glasgow. The parish of Aberfoyle takes its name from this village, and had a population of 1,065 at the 2011 census. Geography The town is situated on the River Forth at the foot of Craigmore ( high). Since 1885, when the Duke of Montrose constructed a road over the eastern shoulder of Craigmore to join the older road at the entrance of the Trossachs pass, Aberfoyle has become the alternative route to the Trossachs and Loch Katrine; this road, known as the Duke's Road or Duke's Pass, was opened to the public in 1931 when the Forestry Commission acquired the land. Loch Ard, about west of Aberfoyle, lies above the sea. It is long (including the narrows at the east end) and broad. Towards the west end is Eilean Gorm (the green isle), and near the north-western shore are the falls of Ledard. The loch's northern shores are dominated by the mountain ridge of Beinn an Fhogharaidh (). northwest of Loch Ard is Loch Chon, at above the sea, long and about broad. It drains by the Avon Dhu to Loch Ard, which is drained in turn by the Forth. Toponym Aberfoyle supposedly originates from the Brittonic Celtic, aber poll or aber phuill (Scottish Gaelic, ), meaning (place at the) mouth of the Phuill Burn (the Pow Burn enters the River Forth at Aberfoyle). Historically, alternative spellings such as Abirfull, Aberfule, Aberfoill and Aberfoil have been recorded before the current spelling became accepted by the 20th century. The river-name is from either Gaelic poll or Brittonic pol, both of which mean 'pool, sluggish water'. Industry The slate quarries on Craigmore which operated from the 1820s to the 1950s are now defunct; at its peak this was a major industry. Other industries included an ironworks, established in the 1720s, as well as wool spinning and a lint mill. From 1882 the village was served by Aberfoyle railway station, the terminus of the Strathendrick and Aberfoyle Railway which connected to Glasgow via Dumbarton or Kirkintilloch. The station closed to passenger traffic in 1951, and the remaining freight services ceased in 1959. The above industries have since died out, and Aberfoyle is supported mainly by the forestry, industry and tourism. Tourism Visitors were first attracted to Aberfoyle and the surrounding area after the publication of The Lady of the Lake by Sir Walter Scott in 1810. The poem described the beauty of Loch Katrine. Aberfoyle describes itself as The Gateway to the Trossachs, and is well situated for visitors to access attractions such as Loch Lomond and Inchmahome Priory at the Lake of Menteith. A tourist information office run by VisitScotland sits in the centre of town, offering free information, selling souvenirs and acting as a booking office for many of the local B&B's and hotels. Aberfoyle Golf Club was built in 1860 and is located just south of town near the Rob Roy restaurant. Aberfoyle is also part of the Loch Lomond and The Trossachs National Park. Aberfoyle is also home to the largest Go Ape adventure course in the UK, featuring the longest death slide, or 'zip-line', in the UK. Historical figures Aberfoyle has connections to many historical figures such as Rob Roy and Mary, Queen of Scots. Robert Roy MacGregor was born at the head of nearby Loch Katrine, and his well-known cattle stealing exploits took him all around the area surrounding Aberfoyle. It is recorded, for example, that in 1691, the MacGregors raided every barn in the village of Kippen and stole all the villagers' livestock. There currently stands a tree in the village that MacGregor was reputed to have climbed and hid in to escape the clutches of the law. Also, Mary, Queen of Scots, visited nearby Inchmahome Priory often as a child, and during her short reign. She also used the priory during her short reign, particularly in 1547, where she felt safe from the English Army. However, the most local historical figure is the Reverend Robert Kirk, born in 1644. It was the Rev. Kirk who provided the first translation into Scottish Gaelic of the Metrical Psalms and then the whole Christian Bible, however, he is better remembered for the publication of his book "The Secret Commonwealth of Elves, Fauns, and Fairies" in 1691. Kirk had long been researching fairies, and the book collected several personal accounts and stories of folk who claimed to have encountered them. It was after this, while Kirk was minister of Aberfoyle parish, that he died in unusual circumstances. Kirk had long believed that the local Doon Hill was the gateway to the "Secret Commonwealth", or the Celtic Otherworld. It was a place that Kirk visited often, taking daily walks there from his manse. The story goes that the Fairies of Doon Hill were angry with the Rev. Kirk for going into the domain of the Unseelie court, where he had been warned not to go, and decided to imprison him in Doon Hill — for one night in May 1692, the Rev. Kirk went out for a walk to the hill, in his nightshirt. Some accounts claim that he simply vanished, however he suddenly collapsed. He was found and brought home, but died soon afterwards. He was buried in his own kirkyard, although local legends claim that the fairies took his body away, and the coffin contains only stones. The huge pine tree that still stands at the top of Doon Hill is said to contain Kirk's imprisoned spirit. Kirk's cousin, Graham of Duchray, was later to claim that the spectre of Kirk had visited him in the night, and told him that he had been carried off into the Celtic Otherworld. Having left his widow pregnant, Kirk told Graham that he would appear at the baptism of his unborn child. Graham was to throw an iron knife at the apparition, which would set Kirk free from his imprisonment by the fairies. However, when the Minister's spectre appeared at the baptism, Graham of Duchray, similarly to Orpheus, was too shocked to throw the iron knife, and Kirk faded away forever. Today, visitors to Doon Hill write their wishes on pieces of white silk, or other white cloth, and tie them to the branches of the trees for the Good People to grant. Use in fiction Aberfoyle was used as the location and inspiration for the adventure novel "Les Indes noires" (English title: The Child of the Cavern) by Jules Verne. The "Clachan of Aberfoil", then (in 1715) a small hamlet, plays a significant role in the second Volume of the novel Rob Roy by Walter Scott. Aberfoyle is where two grandfathers grew up in Shadow Land by Adam Wright. The grandfathers are the ancestors of two sub-characters who are related to Shellycoats. In the book, it is surmised that people from Aberfoyle have a hint of the faerie in their blood. See also List of places in Stirling (council area) References External links Read more about Aberfoyle and its history Villages in Stirling (council area) Trossachs Highland Boundary Fault
Abersychan is a town and community north of Pontypool in Torfaen, Wales, and lies within the boundaries of the historic county of Monmouthshire and the preserved county of Gwent. Abersychan lies in the narrow northern section of the Afon Lwyd valley. The town includes two schools; Abersychan Comprehensive School and Victoria Primary School; together with various shops and other amenities including Abersychan Rugby Club. Abersychan was the birthplace of the politicians Roy Jenkins, Don Touhig and Paul Murphy (member of parliament for Torfaen); and of the rugby footballers Wilfred Hodder, Candy Evans and Bryn Meredith. History Like many of the 17th century isolated agricultural hamlets in the forested South Wales Valleys, Abersychan became a thriving industrial centre in the 19th and early 20th centuries, particularly for iron production. After the discovery of iron stone locally, the principal ironworks were built by the British Iron Company in 1825, served mainly by the London and North Western Railway's Brynmawr and Blaenavon Railway. The ironwork's main office building and quadrangle were designed by architect Decimus Burton, best known for his design of London Zoo. The works passed to the New British Iron Company in 1843 and to the Ebbw Vale Company in 1852, before closing in 1889. On 6 February 1890, an underground explosion at Llanerch Colliery killed 176. The site of the former ironworks today is a core site of , and a total land area of , includes a number of listed buildings: Abersychan Limestone Railway: built to carry limestone from Cwm Lascarn quarry to the British Ironworks. Air Furnace at British Ironworks British Colliery Pumping Engine House: a Cornish beam pumping engine house built by the British Iron Company. Built of sandstone with a slate roof, and retains several fixtures Cwmbyrgwm Colliery: Site of former colliery including remains of a water-balance headgear, chimney, oval shafts, water power dams, tramroad routes, and waste tips. Various proposals have been made over the years to redevelop the site, currently under the ownership of HSBC, but none have so far passed the requirements of Torfaen county council. Local government Abersychan constitutes a community and electoral ward of the county borough of Torfaen. The area was part of the ancient parish of Trevethin, in Monmouthshire. On 3 June 1864 Abersychan was constituted a local government district, governed by a local board. In 1894 Abersychan became an urban district and civil parish. The urban district was abolished in 1935, with most of its area passing to Pontypool urban district, and a small area going to Abercarn UD. In 1974 the area became part of the borough of Torfaen, in the new local government county of Gwent. The community of Abersychan was formed in 1985, but no community council has yet been formed. Abersychan and Cwmavon is now a ward for the Pontypool Community Council. In 1996 Torfaen became a unitary authority. The Abersychan community includes Abersychan, Cwmavon, Garndiffaith, Pentwyn, Talywain, Varteg, and Victoria Village. Local Transport The nearest railway stations to Abersychan are Pontypool & New Inn (3 miles), Llanhilleth (3.5 miles) and Abergavenny (7 miles). Abersychan was served by the following (disused) stations: Abersychan and Talywain railway station Abersychan Low Level railway station Places nearby Pentwyn Pentwyn, Torfaen is a small village located in the district of Abersychan. It contains a post office, several houses and a small play park. The village has a cricket team (Pontnewynydd CC) and is located right next to the old railway line. The cricket club celebrated its 100-year anniversary in 2006 with a successful tour to Cork, Ireland. The village has superb views over the River Severn and Newport to the south. Victoria Village Victoria Village is a small hamlet located in the district of Abersychan. It comprises a small village school and a number of houses. A small group of houses on Incline Road mark the beginning of the village and the village boundary is near Cwmavon. Victoria Primary School is also in this area, housed in large grounds. Many homes are built around the school's boundaries. Victoria Village primary school was opened in 1903 and closed by the council in 2018. The last head of the school was Miss Joy Dando. And caretaker Miss Debbie Williams. References Towns in Torfaen Local Government Districts created by the Local Government Act 1858 Communities in Torfaen Electoral wards of Torfaen
Abeyance (from the Old French meaning "gaping") is a state of expectancy in respect of property, titles or office, when the right to them is not vested in any one person, but awaits the appearance or determination of the true owner. In law, the term abeyance can be applied only to such future estates as have not yet vested or possibly may not vest. For example, an estate is granted to A for life, with remainder to the heir of B. Following A's death, if B is still alive, the remainder is in abeyance, for B has no heirs until B's death. Similarly, the freehold of a benefice, on the death of the incumbent, is said to be in abeyance until the next incumbent takes possession. The term hold in abeyance is used in lawsuits and court cases when a case is temporarily put on hold. English peerage law History The most common use of the term is in the case of English peerage dignities. Most such peerages pass to heirs-male, but the ancient baronies created by writ, as well as some very old earldoms, pass instead to heirs-general (by cognatic primogeniture). In this system, sons are preferred from eldest to youngest, the heirs of a son over the next son, and any son over daughters, but there is no preference among daughters: they or their heirs inherit equally. If the daughter is an only child or her sisters are deceased and have no living issue, she (or her heir) is vested with the title; otherwise, since a peerage cannot be shared nor divided, the dignity goes into abeyance between the sisters or their heirs, and is held by no one. If through lack of issue, marriage, or both, eventually only one person represents the claims of all the sisters, they can claim the dignity as a matter of right, and the abeyance is said to be terminated. On the other hand, the number of prospective heirs can grow quite large, since each share potentially can be divided between daughters, where the owner of a share dies without leaving a son. A co-heir may petition the Crown for a termination of the abeyance. The Crown may choose to grant the petition, but if there is any doubt whatsoever as to the pedigree of the petitioner, the claim is normally referred to the Committee for Privileges. If the claim is unopposed, the committee will generally award the claim, unless there is evidence of collusion, the peerage has been in abeyance for more than a century, or the petitioner holds less than one-third of the claim. This doctrine is a 17th-century innovation, although it is now applied retrospectively for centuries. It cannot be applied perfectly; for example, the eighth Baron De La Warr had three surviving sons; the first died without children, the second left two daughters, and the third left a son. In modern law, the title would have fallen into abeyance between the two daughters of the second son, and nobody else would have been able to claim it even if the abeyance were settled; however, in 1597, the grandson of the third son (whose father had been re-created Baron De La Warr in 1570) claimed the title and its precedence. In 1604, the Baron le Despencer case was the first peerage abeyance ever settled; the second was at the Restoration in 1660. Most subsequent abeyances (only a few dozen cases) were settled after a few years, in favour of the holder of the family properties; there were two periods in which long-abeyant peerages (in some cases peerages of doubtful reality) were brought back: between 1838 and 1841 and between 1909 and 1921. The Complete Peerage reports that only baronies have been called out of abeyance, although the Earldom of Cromartie was called out of a two-year abeyance in 1895. It is entirely possible for a peerage to remain in abeyance for centuries. For example, the Barony of Grey of Codnor was in abeyance for over 490 years between 1496 and 1989, and the Barony of Hastings was similarly in abeyance for over 299 years from 1542 to 1841. Some other baronies became abeyant in the 13th century, and the abeyance has yet to be terminated. The only modern examples of titles other than a barony that have yet gone into abeyance are the earldom of Arlington and the viscountcy of Thetford, which are united, and (as noted above) the earldom of Cromartie. It is no longer straightforward to claim English peerages after long abeyances. In 1927 a parliamentary Select Committee on Peerages in Abeyance recommended that no claim should be considered where the abeyance has lasted more than 100 years, nor where the claimant lays claim to less than one third of the dignity. The Barony of Grey of Codnor was treated as an exception to this principle, as a claim to it had been submitted prior to these recommendations being made to the Sovereign. Titles in the Peerage of Scotland cannot go into abeyance, because in Scottish law the eldest sister is preferred over younger sisters; sisters are not considered equal co-heirs. It is common, but incorrect, to speak of peerage dignities which are dormant (i.e. unclaimed) as being in abeyance. Peerages called out of abeyance by year of initial abeyance Settling litigation Abeyance can be used in cases where parties are interested in temporarily settling litigation while still holding the right to seek relief later if necessary. This may be considered a desirable outcome in cases where the party to the lawsuit is an organization with a transient membership and political perspective. The use of abeyance in such instances can allow such an organization to 'settle' with the party without officially binding its actions in the future, should a new group of decision makers within the organization choose to pursue taking the dispute to court. For example, abeyance was used as a settlement method in a Canadian lawsuit involving the University of Victoria Students' Society (UVSS), the British Columbia Civil Liberties Association, and a campus anti-abortion club to whom the UVSS denied funding. The parties agreed to settle the lawsuit by holding the case in abeyance in return for the UVSS temporarily giving resources back to the club. With this arrangement, the anti-abortion club held on to its right to immediately reopen the case again should the UVSS deny resources to the club in the future, and the UVSS was able to avoid an expensive legal battle it did not have the will to pursue at the time. Thus, the use of abeyance provided the security of a settlement for the anti-abortion campus club, while preserving the student society's voting membership's ability to take the matter back to court should they choose in the future to deny resources to the club. Other court cases may be held in abeyance when the issue may be resolved by another court or another event. This saves time and effort trying to resolve a dispute that may be made moot by the other events. During lawsuits related to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act after the Supreme Court of the United States granted certiorari in King v. Burwell, attorneys in Halbig v. Burwell requested abeyance of that case as the matter would be resolved in King and it would be a waste of time and effort to try to resolve it in the Halbig case. See also Coparcenary References Bibliography Cokayne, George Edward. The Complete Peerage. and . External links Property law Peerages in the United Kingdom
Anders Celsius (; 27 November 170125 April 1744) was a Swedish astronomer, physicist and mathematician. He was professor of astronomy at Uppsala University from 1730 to 1744, but traveled from 1732 to 1735 visiting notable observatories in Germany, Italy and France. He founded the Uppsala Astronomical Observatory in 1741, and in 1742 proposed (an inverted form of) the Centigrade temperature scale which was later renamed Celsius in his honour. Early life and education Anders Celsius was born in Uppsala, Sweden, on 27 November 1701. His family originated from Ovanåker in the province of Hälsingland. Their family estate was at Doma, also known as Höjen or Högen (locally as Högen 2). The name Celsius is a latinization of the estate's name (Latin 'mound'). As the son of an astronomy professor, Nils Celsius, nephew of botanist Olof Celsius and the grandson of the mathematician Magnus Celsius and the astronomer Anders Spole, Celsius chose a career in science. He was a talented mathematician from an early age. Anders Celsius studied at Uppsala University, where his father was a teacher, and in 1730 he, too, became a professor of astronomy there. Noted Swedish dramatic poet and actor Johan Celsius was also his uncle. Career In 1730, Celsius published the (New Method for Determining the Distance from the Earth to the Sun). His research also involved the study of auroral phenomena, which he conducted with his assistant Olof Hiorter, and he was the first to suggest a connection between the aurora borealis and changes in the magnetic field of the Earth. He observed the variations of a compass needle and found that larger deflections correlated with stronger auroral activity. At Nuremberg in 1733, he published a collection of 316 observations of the aurora borealis made by himself and others over the period 1716–1732. Celsius traveled frequently in the early 1730s, including to Germany, Italy and France, when he visited most of the major European observatories. In Paris he advocated the measurement of an arc of the meridian in Lapland. In 1736, he participated in the expedition organized for that purpose by the French Academy of Sciences, led by the French mathematician Pierre Louis Maupertuis (1698–1759) to measure a degree of latitude. The aim of the expedition was to measure the length of a degree along a meridian, close to the pole, and compare the result with a similar expedition to Peru, today in Ecuador, near the equator. The expeditions confirmed Isaac Newton's belief that the shape of the Earth is an ellipsoid flattened at the poles. In 1738, he published the (Observations on Determining the Shape of the Earth). Celsius's participation in the Lapland expedition won him much respect in Sweden with the government and his peers, and played a key role in generating interest from the Swedish authorities in donating the resources required to construct a new modern observatory in Uppsala. He was successful in the request, and Celsius founded the Uppsala Astronomical Observatory in 1741. The observatory was equipped with instruments purchased during his long voyage abroad, comprising the most modern instrumental technology of the period. He made observations of eclipses and various astronomical objects and published catalogues of carefully determined magnitudes for some 300 stars using his own photometric system (mean error=0.4 mag). In 1742 he proposed the Celsius temperature scale in a paper to the Royal Society of Sciences in Uppsala, the oldest Swedish scientific society, founded in 1710. His thermometer was calibrated with a value of 0 for the boiling point of water and 100 for the freezing point. In 1745, a year after Celsius's death, the scale was reversed by Carl Linnaeus to facilitate more practical measurement. Celsius conducted many geographical measurements for the Swedish General map, and was one of earliest to note that much of Scandinavia is slowly rising above sea level, a continuous process which has been occurring since the melting of the ice from the latest ice age. However, he wrongly posed the notion that the water was evaporating. In 1725 he became secretary of the Royal Society of Sciences in Uppsala, and served at this post until his death from tuberculosis in 1744. He supported the formation of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences in Stockholm in 1739 by Linnaeus and five others, and was elected a member at the first meeting of this academy. It was in fact Celsius who proposed the new academy's name. Works See also Celsius family Daniel Gabriel Fahrenheit References Citations Sources External links Johan Celsius - Historical records and family trees at MyHeritage 1701 births 1744 deaths 18th-century Swedish astronomers 18th-century deaths from tuberculosis People from Uppsala Uppsala University alumni Academic staff of Uppsala University Members of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences Tuberculosis deaths in Sweden 18th-century Swedish mathematicians Fellows of the Royal Society Creators of temperature scales Age of Liberty people
Atlas Autocode (AA) is a programming language developed around 1963 at the University of Manchester. A variant of the language ALGOL, it was developed by Tony Brooker and Derrick Morris for the Atlas computer. The initial AA and AB compilers were written by Jeff Rohl and Tony Brooker using the Brooker-Morris Compiler-compiler, with a later hand-coded non-CC implementation (ABC) by Jeff Rohl. The word Autocode was basically an early term for programming language. Different autocodes could vary greatly. Features AA was a block structured language that featured explicitly typed variables, subroutines, and functions. It omitted some ALGOL features such as passing parameters by name, which in ALGOL 60 means passing the memory address of a short subroutine (a thunk) to recalculate a parameter each time it is mentioned. The AA compiler could generate range-checking for array accesses, and allowed an array to have dimensions that were determined at runtime, i.e., an array could be declared as integer array Thing (i:j), where i and j were calculated values. AA high-level routines could include machine code, either to make an inner loop more efficient or to effect some operation which otherwise cannot be done easily. AA included a complex data type to represent complex numbers, partly because of pressure from the electrical engineering department, as complex numbers are used to represent the behavior of alternating current. The imaginary unit square root of -1 was represented by i, which was treated as a fixed complex constant = i. The complex data type was dropped when Atlas Autocode later evolved into the language Edinburgh IMP. IMP was an extension of AA and was used to write the Edinburgh Multiple Access System (EMAS) operating system. AA's second-greatest claim to fame (after being the progenitor of IMP and EMAS) was that it had many of the features of the original Compiler Compiler. A variant of the AA compiler included run-time support for a top-down recursive descent parser. The style of parser used in the Compiler Compiler was in use continuously at Edinburgh from the 60's until almost the year 2000. Other Autocodes were developed for the Titan computer, a prototype Atlas 2 at Cambridge, and the Ferranti Mercury. Syntax Atlas Autocode's syntax was largely similar to ALGOL, though it was influenced by the output device which the author had available, a Friden Flexowriter. Thus, it allowed symbols like ½ for .5 and the superscript 2 for to the power of 2. The Flexowriter supported overstriking and thus, AA did also: up to three characters could be overstruck as a single symbol. For example, the character set had no ↑ symbol, so exponentiation was an overstrike of | and *. The aforementioned underlining of reserved words (keywords) could also be done using overstriking. The language is described in detail in the Atlas Autocode Reference Manual. Other Flexowriter characters that were found a use in AA were: α in floating-point numbers, e.g., 3.56α-7 for modern 3.56e-7 ; β to mean the second half of a 48-bit Atlas memory word; π for the mathematical constant pi. When AA was ported to the English Electric KDF9 computer, the character set was changed to International Organization for Standardization (ISO). That compiler has been recovered from an old paper tape by the Edinburgh Computer History Project and is available online, as is a high-quality scan of the original Edinburgh version of the Atlas Autocode manual. Keywords in AA were distinguishable from other text by being underlined, which was implemented via overstrike in the Flexowriter (compare to bold in ALGOL). There were also two stropping regimes. First, there was an "uppercasedelimiters" mode where all uppercase letters (outside strings) were treated as underlined lowercase. Second, in some versions (but not in the original Atlas version), it was possible to strop keywords by placing a "%" sign in front of them, for example the keyword endofprogramme could be typed as %end %of %programme or %endofprogramme. This significantly reduced typing, due to only needing one character, rather than overstriking the whole keyword. As in ALGOL, there were no reserved words in the language as keywords were identified by underlining (or stropping), not by recognising reserved character sequences. In the statement if token=if then result = token, there is both a keyword if and a variable named if. As in ALGOL, AA allowed spaces in variable names, such as integer previous value. Spaces were not significant and were removed before parsing in a trivial pre-lexing stage called "line reconstruction". What the compiler would see in the above example would be "iftoken=ifthenresult=token". Spaces were possible due partly to keywords being distinguished in other ways, and partly because the source was processed by scannerless parsing, without a separate lexing phase, which allowed the lexical syntax to be context-sensitive. The syntax for expressions let the multiplication operator be omitted, e.g., 3a was treated as 3*a, and a(i+j) was treated as a*(i+j) if a was not an array. In ambiguous uses, the longest possible name was taken (maximal munch), for example ab was not treated as a*b, whether or not a and b had been declared. References External links The main features of Atlas Autocode, By R. A. Brooker, J. S. Rohl, and S. R. Clark The Atlas Autocode Mini-Manual by W. F. Lunnon, G. Riding (July 1965) Atlas Autocode Reference Manual by R.A. Brooker, J.S.Rohl (March 1965) Mercury Autocode, Atlas Autocode and some Associated Matters. by Vic Forrington (Jan 2014) Flowcharts for Atlas Autocode compiler on KDF9. Ferranti History of computing in the United Kingdom Structured programming languages
Arthur J. Stone (1847–1938), a leading American silversmith, was born, trained and worked in Sheffield, England, and Edinburgh, Scotland, before travelling to the United States in 1884. He was one of the last silversmiths in America to train apprentices to carry out designs in hand-wrought silver. In 1901, Stone set up a workshop in Gardner, Massachusetts which operated under his name until its sale in 1937 to Henry Heywood. Heywood was a Gardner businessman, who renamed it The Stone Silver Shop, and later, Stone Associates. Heywood died in 1945. His sons Henry, Jr. and Jerome ran Stone Associates until 1957. One of the silversmiths in Arthur Stone's shop was George Porter Blanchard, father of silversmith Porter Blanchard. References External links Work examples and makers' marks Samples of his work Samples of his work Article on Stone silver Notes on his career and a picture of him at work 1847 births 1938 deaths Artists from Sheffield American silversmiths British emigrants to the United States
The Au file format is a simple audio file format introduced by Sun Microsystems. The format was common on NeXT systems and on early Web pages. Originally it was headerless, being simply 8-bit μ-law-encoded data at an 8000 Hz sample rate. Hardware from other vendors often used sample rates as high as 8192 Hz, often integer multiples of video clock signal frequencies. Newer files have a header that consists of six unsigned 32-bit words, an optional information chunk which is always of non-zero size, and then the data (in big-endian format). Although the format now supports many audio encoding formats, it remains associated with the μ-law logarithmic encoding. This encoding was native to the SPARCstation 1 hardware, where SunOS exposed the encoding to application programs through the /dev/audio device file interface. This encoding and interface became a de facto standard for Unix sound. New format All fields are stored in big-endian format, including the sample data. The type of encoding depends on the value of the "encoding" field (word 3 of the header). Formats 2 through 7 are uncompressed linear PCM, therefore technically lossless (although not necessarily free of quantization error, especially in 8-bit form). Formats 1 and 27 are μ-law and A-law, respectively, both companding logarithmic representations of PCM, and arguably lossy as they pack what would otherwise be almost 16 bits of dynamic range into 8 bits of encoded data, even though this is achieved by an altered dynamic response and no data is actually "thrown away". Formats 23 through 26 are ADPCM, which is an early form of lossy compression, usually but not always with 4 bits of encoded data per audio sample (for 4:1 efficiency with 16-bit input, or 2:1 with 8-bit; equivalent to e.g. encoding CD quality MP3 at a 352kbit rate using a low quality encoder). Several of the others (number 8 through 22) are DSP commands or data, designed to be processed by the NeXT Music Kit software. Note: PCM formats are encoded as signed data (as opposed to unsigned). The current format supports only a single audio data segment per file. The variable-length annotation field is currently ignored by most audio applications. References External links Oracle man pages: audio(7i) - generic audio device interface (for information on the /dev/audio interface) Computer file formats Digital container formats Audio codecs
Abhorrers, the name given in 1679 to the persons who expressed their abhorrence at the action of those who had signed petitions urging King Charles II of England to assemble Parliament. Feeling against Catholics, and especially against James, Duke of York, was running strongly; the Exclusion Bill had been passed by the House of Commons, and the popularity of James Scott, 1st Duke of Monmouth, was very great. To prevent this bill from passing into law, Charles had dissolved the parliament in July 1679, and in the following October had prorogued its successor, which became known as the Exclusion Bill Parliament, without allowing it to meet. He was then deluged with petitions urging him to call it together. This agitation was opposed by Sir George Jeffreys and Francis Wythens, who presented addresses expressing abhorrence of the Petitioners, and thus initiated the movement of the abhorrers, who supported the action of the king. "The frolic went all over England," says Roger North; and the addresses of the Abhorrers which reached the king from all parts of the country formed a counterblast to those of the Petitioners. It is said that the terms Whig and Tory were first applied to English political parties as consequence of this dispute. References 1679 in England Stuart England Political history of England
Abiathar ( ʾEḇyāṯār, "father (of) abundance"/"abundant father"), in the Hebrew Bible, is a son of Ahimelech or Ahijah, High Priest at Nob, the fourth in descent from Eli and the last of Eli's House to be a High Priest. Bible account Abiathar was the only one of the priests to escape from Saul's (reigned c. 1020–1000 BCE) massacre in Nob, when his father and the priests of Nob were slain on the command of Saul. He fled to David (reigned c. 1003–970 BCE) at Keilah, taking with him the ephod and other priestly regalia. Rabbinical literature that linked the later extermination of the male descendants of David with the priests of Nob, also link the survival of David's descendant Joash with that of Abiathar. Abiathar joined David, who was then in the cave of Adullam. He remained with David, and became priest of the party of which he was the leader. He was of great service to David, especially at the time of the rebellion of Absalom. When David ascended the throne of Judah, Abiathar was appointed High Priest and the "king's counselor". Meanwhile, Zadok, of the house of Eleazar, had been made High Priest. Another version says he was Co-Pontiff with Zadok during King David. These appointments continued in force until the end of David's reign. In 1 Kings 4:4, Zadok and Abiathar are found acting together as priests under Solomon. Abiathar was deposed (the sole historical instance of the deposition of a high priest) and banished to his home at Anathoth by Solomon, because he took part in the attempt to raise Adonijah to the throne instead of Solomon. The priesthood thus passed from the house of Ithamar to the house of Eleazar. In rabbinic literature The rescue of the chief priest Abiathar, in the massacre of the priests of Nob ordered by Saul, was fortunate for the house of David; for if he had lost his life, David's descendants would through divine retaliation have been entirely wiped out of existence at the hands of Athaliah. It was David's acts that had really brought about the death of the priests, and to make amends he appointed Abiathar high priest. Abiathar retained the office until he was deserted by the Holy Spirit, without which the high priest could not successfully consult the Urim and Thummim. When David, on his flight from Absalom, recognized this loss in Abiathar, he felt compelled to put Zadok in his place. Abiathar's removal from the Priesthood fulfilled that other part of the curse on the House of Eli—that the Priesthood would pass out of the House of Eli. Confusion of the name In 2 Samuel 8:17 Ahimelech, the son of Abiathar is suggested to be read, with the Syriac, for Abiathar, the son of Ahimelech. A similar confusion occurs in Gospel of Mark: in reporting Jesus' words, the evangelist used the name Abiathar when we might expect to see Jesus mention his father Ahimelech. Suggestions made to resolve the difficulty — e.g. that father and son each bore the same double name, or that Abiathar officiated during his father's lifetime and in his father's stead—have been supported by great names, but have not been fully accepted. References 11th-century BCE High Priests of Israel 10th-century BCE High Priests of Israel People from the Kingdom of Israel (united monarchy) Family of Eli (biblical figure)
Abigail () was an Israelite woman in the Hebrew Bible married to Nabal; she married the future King David after Nabal's death (1 Samuel ). Abigail was David's third wife, after Ahinoam and Saul's daughter, Michal, whom Saul later married to Palti, son of Laish, when David went into hiding. Abigail became the mother of one of David's sons, who is listed in the Book of Chronicles under the name Daniel, in the Masoretic Text of the Books of Samuel as Chileab, and in the Septuagint text of 2 Samuel 3:3 as Δαλουια, Dalouia. Her name is spelled Abigal in in the American Standard Version. Name Derived from the Hebrew word ab, "father", and the Hebrew root g-y-l, "to rejoice," the name Abigail has a variety of possible meanings including "my father's joy" and "source of joy". Biblical narrative In 1 Samuel 25, Nabal demonstrates ingratitude towards David, the son of Jesse (from the tribe of Judah), and Abigail attempts to placate David, in order to stop the future King from taking revenge. She gives him food, and speaks to him, urging him not to "have on his conscience the staggering burden of needless bloodshed" (verse 31, NIV) and reminding him that God will make him a "lasting dynasty" (verse 28). Jon Levenson calls this an "undeniable adumbration" of Nathan's prophecy in 2 Samuel 7. Alice Bach notes that Abigail pronounces a "crucial prophecy," and the Talmud regards her as one of the Tanakh's seven female prophets. Levenson, however, suggests that she "senses the drift of history" from intelligence rather than from special revelation. After Abigail reveals to Nabal what she has done, "God struck Nabal and he died" (v. 38), after which David married her. Abigail is described as intelligent and beautiful. The Talmud amplifies this idea, mentioning her as being one of the "four women of surpassing beauty in the world" (the other three being Rahab, Sarah, and Esther). Being married to the wealthy Nabal, she is also a woman of high socioeconomic status. Whether David married her because he was attracted to her, or as an astute political move, or both is unclear. Abigail and David's second wife, Ahinoam the Jezreelite, accompany David and his war band as they seek refuge in Philistine territory. While David and his men are encamped near Jezreel, the women are captured by Amalekites who raided the town of Ziklag and carried off the women and children. David led the pursuit, and they were subsequently rescued. Both wives then settle with David in Hebron, where Abigail gives birth to David's second son, Chileab (also called Daniel). Abigail is also listed as one of the seven Jewish women prophets, the other six being Miriam, Deborah, Hannah, Sarah, Huldah, and Esther. In terms of her moral character, Abraham Kuyper argues that Abigail's conduct indicates "a most appealing character and unwavering faith," but Alice Bach regards her as subversive. Adele Berlin contrasts the story of Abigail with that of Bathsheba. In one, the wife prevents David from murdering her foolish and greedy husband. In the second, David orders the death of a good man because he desires his wife. "In the Abigail story, David, the potential king, is seen as increasingly strong and virtuous, whereas in the Bathsheba story, the reigning monarch shows his flaws ever more overtly and begins to lose control of his family." Levenson and Halpern suggest that Abigail may, in fact, also be the same person as Abigail, mother of Amasa. Richard M. Davidson, however, points out that "on the basis of the final form of Old Testament canon, references to Abigail in the biblical accounts indicate two different individuals." Generic use Abigail's self-styling as a handmaid led to Abigail being a traditional term for a waiting-woman, for example as the waiting gentlewoman in Beaumont and Fletcher's The Scornful Lady, published in 1616. Jonathan Swift, Tobias Smollett, and Henry Fielding use Abigail in this generic sense, as does Charlotte Brontë. Scott, in The Abbot frequently refers to Lilias, Lady Avenel's maid as an “Abigail.” Anthony Trollope makes two references to the abigail (all lower case) in The Eustace Diamonds, at the beginning of Chapter 42, whilst Thomas Mann makes the same reference at the start of the second chapter of Part 2 in Buddenbrooks (published in 1901). William Rose Benet notes the notoriety of Abigail Hill, better known as "Mrs Masham", a lady-in-waiting to Queen Anne. George MacDonald Fraser makes mention of "an abigail fussing about the room" in his novel Flashman from The Flashman Papers series. In art Abigail, and especially her meeting with David, was a common subject of European artwork in the Renaissance and post-Renaissance period. Artists depicting her, or them, include Antonio Molinari, Juan Antonio Escalante, and Peter Paul Rubens. Abigail is a featured figure on Judy Chicago's installation piece The Dinner Party, being represented in one of the 999 tiles of the Heritage Floor. Veneration Abigail is venerated in Catholic Church as "righteous". Her feast day is 1 September. Citations General and cited references Chicago, Judy. The Dinner Party: From Creation to Preservation. London: Merrell (2007). . External links 10th-century BC people 10th-century BC women 11th-century BC people 11th-century BC women Christian royal saints Christian saints from the Old Testament Christian saints in unknown century Eastern Orthodox royal saints Eastern Orthodox saints Old Testament people Roman Catholic royal saints Saints Wives of David Women in the Hebrew Bible
Abila, also spelled Abyla, may refer to: Places Abila in the Decapolis, ancient city in the Levant Abila Lysaniou, capital of ancient Abilene, northwest of present-day Damascus, Syria Abila (Peraea), archaeological site in Jordan Abila, Latin name of Ávila, Spain Abyla, Roman colony in the province of Mauretania Tingitana Mount Abila, mountain in Ceuta, autonomous city of Spain, in Africa Other Abila (grasshopper), a genus of grasshoppers See also Abela, a surname Abilene (biblical)
AutoCAD DXF (Drawing Interchange Format, or Drawing Exchange Format) is a CAD data file format developed by Autodesk for enabling data interoperability between AutoCAD and other programs. DXF was introduced in December 1982 as part of AutoCAD 1.0, and was intended to provide an exact representation of the data in the AutoCAD native file format, DWG (Drawing). For many years, Autodesk did not publish specifications, making correct creation of DXF files difficult. Autodesk now publishes the incomplete DXF specifications online. Versions of AutoCAD from Release 10 (October 1988) and up support both ASCII and binary forms of DXF. Earlier versions support only ASCII. As AutoCAD has become more powerful, supporting more complex object types, DXF has become less useful. Certain object types, including ACIS solids and regions, are not documented. Other object types, including AutoCAD 2006's dynamic blocks, and all of the objects specific to the vertical market versions of AutoCAD, are partially documented, but not well enough to allow other developers to support them. For these reasons many CAD applications use the DWG format which can be licensed from Autodesk or non-natively from the Open Design Alliance. DXF files do not specify the units of measurement used for its coordinates and dimensions. Most CAD systems and many vector graphics packages support the import and export of DXF files, notably Adobe products, Inkscape & Blender. Some CAD systems use DXF as their native format, notably QCAD and LibreCAD. File structure ASCII versions of DXF can be read with any text editor. The basic organization of a DXF file is as follows: section General information about the drawing. Each parameter has a variable name and an associated value. section Holds the information for application-defined classes whose instances appear in the , , and sections of the database. Generally does not provide sufficient information to allow interoperability with other programs. section This section contains definitions of named items. Application ID () table Block Record () table Dimension Style () table Layer () table Linetype () table Text style () table User Coordinate System () table View () table Viewport configuration () table section This section contains Block Definition entities describing the entities comprising each Block in the drawing. section This section contains the drawing entities, including any Block References. section Contains the data that apply to nongraphical objects, used by AutoLISP, and ObjectARX applications. section Contains the preview image for the DXF file. The data format of a DXF is called a "tagged data" format, which "means that each data element in the file is preceded by an integer number that is called a group code. A group code's value indicates what type of data element follows. This value also indicates the meaning of a data element for a given object (or record) type. Virtually all user-specified information in a drawing file can be represented in DXF format." Criticism Because DXF is only partially and poorly documented, missing documentation of key functionality like blocks & layouts, consideration is often given to alternative open formats like SVG (an open format defined by the W3C), DWF (an open format defined by Autodesk) or even EPS (ISO/IEC standard 29112:2018). DXF (as well as DWG) is however still a prefered format for CAD files for use by the ISO. See also Design Web Format (DWF) Open Design Alliance (originally called OpenDWG) References External links AutoCAD DXF Reference (from Release 14, 1998) (PDF version from 2012) AutoCAD DXF File Format Summary. Annotated example DXF file AutoDesk Online DXF File Viewer. 1982 introductions DXF Autodesk products DXF
AbiWord () is a free and open-source software word processor. It is written in C++ and since version 3 it is based on GTK+ 3. The name "AbiWord" is derived from the root of the Spanish word "abierto", meaning "open". AbiWord was originally started by SourceGear Corporation as the first part of a proposed AbiSuite but was adopted by open source developers after SourceGear changed its business focus and ceased development. It now runs on Linux, ReactOS, Solaris, AmigaOS 4.0 (through its Cygwin X11 engine), MeeGo (on the Nokia N9 smartphone), Maemo (on the Nokia N810), QNX and other operating systems. Development of a version for Microsoft Windows has temporarily ended due to lack of maintainers (the latest released versions are 2.8.6 and 2.9.4 beta). The macOS port has remained on version 2.4 since 2005, although the current version does run non-natively on macOS through XQuartz. AbiWord is part of the AbiSource project which develops a number of office-related technologies. Abiword is one of the rare text processing software which allows local users to edit simultaneously the same shared document in a local network, without the requirement of an Internet connection, since 2009. Features AbiWord supports both basic word processing features such as lists, indents and character formats, and more sophisticated features including tables, styles, page headers and footers, footnotes, templates, multiple views, page columns, spell checking, and grammar checking. Starting with version 2.8.0, AbiWord includes a collaboration plugin that allows integration with AbiCollab.net, a Web-based service that permits multiple users to work on the same document in real time, in full synchronization. The Presentation view of AbiWord, which permits easy display of presentations created in AbiWord on "screen-sized" pages, is another feature not often found in word processors. Interface AbiWord generally works similarly to classic versions (pre-Office 2007) of Microsoft Word, as direct ease of migration was a high priority early goal. While many interface similarities remain, cloning the Word interface is no longer a top priority. The interface is intended to follow user interface guidelines for each respective platform. File formats AbiWord comes with several import and export filters providing partial support for such formats as HTML, Microsoft Word (.doc), Office Open XML (.docx), OpenDocument Text (.odt), Rich Text Format (.rtf), and text documents (.txt). LaTeX is supported for export only. Plug-in filters are available to deal with many other formats, notably WordPerfect documents. The native file format, .abw, uses XML, so as to mitigate vendor lock-in concerns with respect to interoperability and digital archiving. Grammar checking The AbiWord project includes a US English-only grammar checking plugin using Link Grammar. AbiWord had grammar checking before any other open source word processor, although a grammar checker was later added to OpenOffice.org. Link Grammar is both a theory of syntax and an open source parser which is now developed by the AbiWord project. See also List of free and open-source software packages List of word processors Comparison of word processors Office Open XML software OpenDocument software References External links 1998 software Cross-platform free software Free software programmed in C++ Free word processors Linux word processors MacOS word processors Office software that uses GTK Portable software Software using the GPL license Windows word processors
An antianginal is a drug used in the treatment of angina pectoris, a symptom of ischaemic heart disease. Examples Drugs used are nitrates, beta blockers, or calcium channel blockers. Nitrates Nitrates cause vasodilation of the venous capacitance vessels by stimulating the endothelium-derived relaxing factor (EDRF). Used to relieve both exertional and vasospastic angina by allowing venous pooling, reducing the pressure in the ventricles and so reducing wall tension and oxygen requirements in, the heart. Short-acting nitrates are used to abort angina attacks that have occurred, while longer-acting nitrates are used in the prophylactic management of the condition. Agents include glyceryl trinitrate (GTN), pentaerythritol tetranitrate, isosorbide dinitrate and isosorbide mononitrate. Beta blockers Beta blockers are used in the prophylaxis of exertional angina by reducing the myocardial oxygen demand below the level that would provoke an angina attack. They are contraindicated in variant angina and can precipitate heart failure. They are also contraindicated in severe asthmatics due to bronchoconstriction, and should be used cautiously in diabetics as they can mask symptoms of hypoglycemia. Agents include either cardioselectives such as acebutolol or metoprolol, or non-cardioselectives such as oxprenolol or sotalol. Calcium channel blockers Calcium ion (Ca++) antagonists (Calcium channel blockers) are used in the treatment of chronic stable angina, and most effectively in the treatment of variant angina (directly preventing coronary artery vasospasm). They are not used in the treatment of unstable angina . In vitro, they dilate the coronary and peripheral arteries and have negative inotropic and chronotropic effects - decreasing afterload, improving myocardial efficiency, reducing heart rate and improving coronary blood flow. In vivo, the vasodilation and hypotension trigger the baroreceptor reflex. Therefore, the net effect is the interplay of direct and reflex actions. Class I agents have the most potent negative inotropic effect and may cause heart failure. Class II agents do not depress conduction or contractility. Class III agent has negligible inotropic effect and causes almost no reflex tachycardia. Examples include Class I agents (e.g., verapamil), Class II agents (e.g., amlodipine, nifedipine), or the Class III agent diltiazem. Nifedipine is more a potent vasodilator and more effective in angina. It is in the class of dihydropyridines and does not affect refractory period on SA node conduction. References
The Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical (ATC) Classification System is a drug classification system that classifies the active ingredients of drugs according to the organ or system on which they act and their therapeutic, pharmacological and chemical properties. Its purpose is an aid to monitor drug use and for research to improve quality medication use. It does not imply drug recommendation or efficacy. It is controlled by the World Health Organization Collaborating Centre for Drug Statistics Methodology (WHOCC), and was first published in 1976. Coding system This pharmaceutical coding system divides drugs into different groups according to the organ or system on which they act, their therapeutic intent or nature, and the drug's chemical characteristics. Different brands share the same code if they have the same active substance and indications. Each bottom-level ATC code stands for a pharmaceutically used substance, or a combination of substances, in a single indication (or use). This means that one drug can have more than one code, for example acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin) has as a drug for local oral treatment, as a platelet inhibitor, and as an analgesic and antipyretic; as well as one code can represent more than one active ingredient, for example is the combination of perindopril with amlodipine, two active ingredients that have their own codes ( and respectively) when prescribed alone. The ATC classification system is a strict hierarchy, meaning that each code necessarily has one and only one parent code, except for the 14 codes at the topmost level which have no parents. The codes are semantic identifiers, meaning they depict information by themselves beyond serving as identifiers (namely, the codes depict themselves the complete lineage of parenthood). As of 7 May 2020, there are 6,331 codes in ATC; the table below gives the count per level. History The ATC system is based on the earlier Anatomical Classification System, which is intended as a tool for the pharmaceutical industry to classify pharmaceutical products (as opposed to their active ingredients). This system, confusingly also called ATC, was initiated in 1971 by the European Pharmaceutical Market Research Association (EphMRA) and is being maintained by the EphMRA and Intellus. Its codes are organised into four levels. The WHO's system, having five levels, is an extension and modification of the EphMRA's. It was first published in 1976. Classification In this system, drugs are classified into groups at five different levels: First level The first level of the code indicates the anatomical main group and consists of one letter. There are 14 main groups: Example: C Cardiovascular system Second level The second level of the code indicates the therapeutic subgroup and consists of two digits. Example: C03 Diuretics Third level The third level of the code indicates the therapeutic/pharmacological subgroup and consists of one letter. Example: C03C High-ceiling diuretics Fourth level The fourth level of the code indicates the chemical/therapeutic/pharmacological subgroup and consists of one letter. Example: C03CA Sulfonamides Fifth level The fifth level of the code indicates the chemical substance and consists of two digits. Example: C03CA01 furosemide Other ATC classification systems ATCvet The Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical Classification System for veterinary medicinal products (ATCvet) is used to classify veterinary drugs. ATCvet codes can be created by placing the letter Q in front of the ATC code of most human medications. For example, furosemide for veterinary use has the code QC03CA01. Some codes are used exclusively for veterinary drugs, such as QI Immunologicals, QJ51 Antibacterials for intramammary use or QN05AX90 amperozide. Herbal ATC (HATC) The Herbal ATC system (HATC) is an ATC classification of herbal substances; it differs from the regular ATC system by using 4 digits instead of 2 at the 5th level group. The herbal classification is not adopted by WHO. The Uppsala Monitoring Centre is responsible for the Herbal ATC classification, and it is part of the WHODrug Global portfolio available by subscription. Defined daily dose The ATC system also includes defined daily doses (DDDs) for many drugs. This is a measurement of drug consumption based on the usual daily dose for a given drug. According to the definition, "[t]he DDD is the assumed average maintenance dose per day for a drug used for its main indication in adults." Adaptations and updates National issues of the ATC classification, such as the German Anatomisch-therapeutisch-chemische Klassifikation mit Tagesdosen, may include additional codes and DDDs not present in the WHO version. ATC follows guidelines in creating new codes for newly approved drugs. An application is submitted to WHO for ATC classification and DDD assignment. A preliminary or temporary code is assigned and published on the website and in the WHO Drug Information for comment or objection. New ATC/DDD codes are discussed at the semi-annual Working Group meeting. If accepted it becomes a final decision and published semi-annually on the website and WHO Drug Information and implemented in the annual print/on-line ACT/DDD Index on January 1. Changes to existing ATC/DDD follow a similar process to become temporary codes and if accepted become a final decision as ATC/DDD alterations. ATC and DDD alterations are only valid and implemented in the coming annual updates; the original codes must continue until the end of the year. An updated version of the complete on-line/print ATC index with DDDs is published annually on January 1. See also Classification of Pharmaco-Therapeutic Referrals (CPR) ICD-10 International Classification of Diseases International Classification of Primary Care (ICPC-2) / ICPC-2 PLUS Medical classification Pharmaceutical care Pharmacotherapy RxNorm References External links Quarterly journal providing an overview of topics relating to medicines development and regulation. from EphMRA Anatomical Classification (ATC and NFC) atcd. R script to scrape the ATC data from the WHOCC website; contains link to download entire ATC tree. Drugs Pharmacological classification systems World Health Organization
The Annals of Mathematics is a mathematical journal published every two months by Princeton University and the Institute for Advanced Study. History The journal was established as The Analyst in 1874 and with Joel E. Hendricks as the founding editor-in-chief. It was "intended to afford a medium for the presentation and analysis of any and all questions of interest or importance in pure and applied Mathematics, embracing especially all new and interesting discoveries in theoretical and practical astronomy, mechanical philosophy, and engineering". It was published in Des Moines, Iowa, and was the earliest American mathematics journal to be published continuously for more than a year or two. This incarnation of the journal ceased publication after its tenth year, in 1883, giving as an explanation Hendricks' declining health, but Hendricks made arrangements to have it taken over by new management, and it was continued from March 1884 as the Annals of Mathematics. The new incarnation of the journal was edited by Ormond Stone (University of Virginia). It moved to Harvard in 1899 before reaching its current home in Princeton in 1911. An important period for the journal was 1928–1958 with Solomon Lefschetz as editor. During this time, it became an increasingly well-known and respected journal. Its rise, in turn, stimulated American mathematics. Norman Steenrod characterized Lefschetz' impact as editor as follows: "The importance to American mathematicians of a first-class journal is that it sets high standards for them to aim at. In this somewhat indirect manner, Lefschetz profoundly affected the development of mathematics in the United States." Princeton University continued to publish the Annals on its own until 1933, when the Institute for Advanced Study took joint editorial control. Since 1998 it has been available in an electronic edition, alongside its regular print edition. The electronic edition was available without charge, as an open access journal, but since 2008 this is no longer the case. Issues from before 2003 were transferred to the non-free JSTOR archive, and articles are not freely available until 5 years after publication. Editors The current () editors of the Annals of Mathematics are Helmut Hofer, Nick Katz, Sergiu Klainerman, Fernando Codá Marques, Assaf Naor, Peter Sarnak and Zoltán Szabó (all but Helmut Hofer from Princeton University, with Hofer being a professor at the Institute for Advanced Study and Peter Sarnak also being a professor there as a second affiliation). Abstracting and indexing The journal is abstracted and indexed in the Science Citation Index, Current Contents/Physical, Chemical & Earth Sciences, and Scopus. According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2020 impact factor of 5.246, ranking it third out of 330 journals in the category "Mathematics". References External links Mathematics journals Publications established in 1874 English-language journals Bimonthly journals Princeton University publications Academic journals published by universities and colleges of the United States 1874 establishments in Iowa
The American Registry for Internet Numbers (ARIN) is the regional Internet registry for the United States, Canada, and many Caribbean and North Atlantic islands. ARIN manages the distribution of Internet number resources, including IPv4 and IPv6 address space and AS numbers. ARIN opened for business on December 22, 1997 after incorporating on April 18, 1997. ARIN is a nonprofit corporation with headquarters in Chantilly, Virginia, United States.<ref>"Chantilly CDP, Virginia ." U.S. Census Bureau. Retrieved on September 16, 2009.</ref> ARIN is one of five regional Internet registries in the world. Like the other regional Internet registries, ARIN: Provides services related to the technical coordination and management of Internet number resources Facilitates policy development by its members and stakeholders Participates in the international Internet community Is a nonprofit, community-based organization Is governed by an executive board elected by its membership Services ARIN provides services related to the technical coordination and management of Internet number resources. The nature of these services is described in ARIN's mission statement:Applying the principles of stewardship, ARIN, a nonprofit corporation, allocates Internet Protocol resources; develops consensus-based policies; and facilitates the advancement of the Internet through information and educational outreach.These services are grouped in three areas: Registration, Organization, and Policy Development. Registration services Registration services pertain to the technical coordination and inventory management of Internet number resources. Services include: IPv4 address allocation and assignment IPv6 address allocation and assignment AS number assignment Directory services including: Registration transaction information (WHOIS) Routing information (Internet routing registry) DNS (Reverse) For information on requesting Internet number resources from ARIN, see https://www.arin.net/resources/index.html. This section includes the request templates, specific distribution policies, and guidelines for requesting and managing Internet number resources. Organization services Organization services pertain to interaction between stakeholders, ARIN members, and ARIN. Services include: Elections Members meetings Information publication and dissemination Education and training Policy development services Policy development services facilitate the development of policy for the technical coordination and management of Internet number resources. All ARIN policies are set by the community. Everyone is encouraged to participate in the policy development process at public policy meetings and on the Public Policy Mailing List. The ARIN Board of Trustees ratifies policies only after: discussion on mailing lists and at meetings; ARIN Advisory Council recommendation; community consensus in favor of the policy; and full legal and fiscal review. Membership is not required to participate in ARIN's policy development process or to apply for Internet number resources. Services include: Maintaining discussion e-mail lists Conducting public policy meetings Publishing policy documents Organizational structure ARIN consists of the Internet community within its region, its members, a 7-member Board of Trustees, a 15-member Advisory Council, and a professional staff of about 50. The board of trustees and Advisory Council are elected by ARIN members for three-year terms. Board of trustees The ARIN membership elects the Board of Trustees (BoT), which has ultimate responsibility for the business affairs and financial health of ARIN, and manages ARIN's operations in a manner consistent with the guidance received from the Advisory Council and the goals set by the registry's members. The BoT is responsible for determining the disposition of all revenues received to ensure all services are provided in an equitable manner. The BoT ratifies proposals generated from the membership and submitted through the Advisory Council. Executive decisions are carried out following approval by the BoT. The BoT consists of 7 members consisting of a President and CEO, a chairman, a Treasurer, and others. Advisory Council In addition to the BoT, ARIN has an advisory council that advises ARIN and the BoT on IP address allocation policy and related matters. Adhering to the procedures in the Internet Resource Policy Evaluation Process, the advisory council forwards consensus-based policy proposals to the BoT for ratification. The advisory council consists of 15 elected members consisting of a Chair, Vice Chair, and others. History The organization was formed in December 1997 to "provide IP registration services as an independent, nonprofit corporation." Until this time, IP address registration (outside of RIPE and APNIC regions) was done in accordance with policies set by the IETF by Network Solutions corporation as part of the InterNIC project. The National Science Foundation approved the plan for the creation of the not-for-profit organization to "give the users of IP numbers (mostly Internet service providers, corporations and other large institutions) a voice in the policies by which they are managed and allocated within the North American region."''. As part of the transition, Network Solutions corporation transitioned these tasks as well as initial staff and computer infrastructure to ARIN. The initial Board of Trustees consisted of Scott Bradner, John Curran, Kim Hubbard, Don Telage, Randy Bush, Raymundo Vega Aguilar, and Jon Postel (IANA) as an ex-officio member. The first president of ARIN was Kim Hubbard, from 1997 until 2000. Kim was succeeded by Raymond "Ray" Plzak until the end of 2008. Trustee John Curran was acting president until July 1 of 2009 when he assumed the CEO role permanently. Until late 2002 it served Mexico, Central America, South America and all of the Caribbean. LACNIC now handles parts of the Caribbean, Mexico, Central America, and South America. Also, Sub-Saharan Africa was part of its region until April 2005, when AfriNIC was officially recognized by ICANN as the fifth regional Internet registry. On 24 September 2015 ARIN has declared exhaustion of the ARIN IPv4 addresses pool. Service region The countries in the ARIN service region are: Former service regions ARIN formerly covered Angola, Botswana, Burundi, Republic of Congo, Democratic Republic of Congo, Eswatini, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Rwanda, South Africa, Tanzania, Zambia, and Zimbabwe until AfriNIC was formed. ARIN formerly covered Argentina, Aruba, Belize, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Dutch West Indies, Ecuador, El Salvador, Falkland Islands (UK), French Guiana, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, Uruguay, and Venezuela until LACNIC was formed. References External links ARIN Home Page Regional Internet registries Internet in Canada Internet in the United States Internet exchange points in North America Organizations based in Virginia
Isaac Asimov (1920–1992) was a writer. Asimov may also refer to: People Stanley Asimov, Isaac Asimov's brother. Eric Asimov, Isaac Asimov's nephew. Places Asimov (crater), an impact crater on Mars, named after Isaac Asimov 5020 Asimov, an asteroid named after Isaac Asimov Other Asimov (surname) Asimov's Science Fiction, an American science fiction magazine named after Isaac Asimov Asimov's SF Adventure Magazine, a short-lived American science fiction magazine named after Isaac Asimov Isaac Asimov Awards, four separate awards established in honor of Isaac Asimov See also ASIMO Azimov, Russian last name
is a neighborhood in the Chiyoda ward of Tokyo, Japan, generally considered to be the area surrounding Akihabara Station. Administratively, the area named Akihabara is actually found in the and Kanda-Sakumachō districts in Chiyoda. There also exists an administrative district called Akihabara in the Taitō ward further north of Akihabara Station, but it is not the place people generally refer to as Akihabara. The name Akihabara is a shortening of , which ultimately comes from , named after a fire-controlling deity of a firefighting shrine built after the area was destroyed by a fire in 1869. Akihabara gained the nickname shortly after World War II for being a major shopping center for household electronic goods and the post-war black market. Akihabara is considered by many to be the epicentre of modern Japanese otaku culture, and is a major shopping district for video games, anime, manga, electronics and computer-related goods. Icons from popular anime and manga are displayed prominently on the shops in the area, and numerous maid cafés and some arcades are found throughout the district. Geography The main area of Akihabara is located on a street just west of Akihabara Station, where most of the major shops are situated. Most of the electronics shops are just west of the station, and the anime and manga shops and the cosplay cafés are north of them. As mentioned above, the area called Akihabara now ranges over some districts in Chiyoda ward: , , and . There exists an administrative district called Akihabara in the Taitō ward further north of the station, but it is not the place which people generally refer to as Akihabara. It borders on Sotokanda in between Akihabara and Okachimachi stations, but is half occupied by JR tracks. History The area that is now Akihabara was once near a city gate of Edo and served as a passage between the city and northwestern Japan. This made the region a home to many craftsmen and tradesmen, as well as some low-class samurai. One of Tokyo's frequent fires destroyed the area in 1869, and the people decided to replace the buildings of the area with a shrine called Chinkasha (now known as Akiba Shrine ), meaning fire extinguisher shrine, in an attempt to prevent the spread of future fires. The locals nicknamed the shrine Akiba after the deity that could control fire, and the area around it became known as Akibagahara and later Akihabara. After Akihabara Station was built in 1888, the shrine was moved to the Taitō ward where it still resides today. Since its opening in 1890, Akihabara Station became a major freight transit point, which allowed a vegetable and fruit market to spring up in the district. Then, in the 1920s, the station saw a large volume of passengers after opening for public transport, and after World War II, the black market thrived in the absence of a strong government. This disconnection of Akihabara from government authority has allowed the district to grow as a market city and given rise to an excellent atmosphere for entrepreneurship. In the 1930s, this climate turned Akihabara into a future-oriented market region specializing in household electronics, such as washing machines, refrigerators, televisions, and stereos, earning Akihabara the nickname "Electric Town". As household electronics began to lose their futuristic appeal in the 1980s, the shops of Akihabara shifted their focus to home computers at a time when they were only used by specialists and hobbyists. This new specialization brought in a new type of consumer, computer nerds or otaku. The market in Akihabara naturally latched onto their new customer base that was focused on anime, manga, and video games. The connection between Akihabara and otaku has survived and grown to the point that the region is now known worldwide as a center for otaku culture, and some otaku even consider Akihabara to be a sacred place. Otaku culture The influence of otaku culture has shaped Akihabara's businesses and buildings to reflect the interests of otaku and gained the district worldwide fame for its distinctive imagery. Akihabara tries to create an atmosphere as close as possible to the game and anime worlds of customers' interest. The streets of Akihabara are covered with anime and manga icons, and cosplayers line the sidewalks handing out advertisements, especially for maid cafés. Release events, special events, and conventions in Akihabara give anime and manga fans frequent opportunities to meet the creators of the works they follow and strengthen the connection between the region and otaku culture. The design of many of the buildings serves to create the sort of atmosphere that draws in otaku. Architects design the stores of Akihabara to be more opaque and closed to reflect the general desire of many otaku to live in their anime worlds rather than display their interests to the world at large. Akihabara's role as a free market has also allowed a large amount of amateur work to find a passionate audience in the otaku who frequent the area. Doujinshi (amateur or fanmade manga based on an anime/manga/game) has been growing in Akihabara since the 1970s when publishers began to drop manga that were not ready for large markets. Comiket is largest spot sale of Doujinshi in Japan. See also Akiba-kei Akihabara Trilogy Kanda Shrine, Shinto shrine near Akihabara Nipponbashi, in Osaka Ōsu, in Nagoya Tourism in Japan References External links Akihabara Area Tourism Organization Akihabara Electrical Town Organization website Go Tokyo Akihabara Guide Chiyoda, Tokyo Electronics districts Neighborhoods of Tokyo Otaku Shopping districts and streets in Japan Taitō Tourist attractions in Tokyo Akiha faith
Arianism is a nontrinitarian Christological doctrine. Arian may also refer to: Pertaining to Arius A follower of Arius, a Christian presbyter in the 3rd and 4th century Arian controversy, several controversies which divided the early Christian church Arian fragment, Arian palimpsest People Groups of people Arians or Areians, ancient people living in Ariana (origin of the modern name Iran) Aryan, a term associated with the Proto-Indo-Iranians Aryan race, the racial concept An inhabitant of Aria (today's Herat, Afghanistan), used by the ancient and medieval Greeks (as Ἄρ(ε)ιοι/Ar(e)ioi) and Romans (as Arii) Given name Arian Asllani (born 1983), American rapper known as Action Bronson Arian Bimo (born 1959), Albanian footballer Arian Çuliqi, Albanian television director and screenwriter Arian Foster (born 1986), American football player Arian Hametaj (born 1957), Albanian footballer Arián Iznaga, Cuban Paralympian sprinter Arian Kabashi (born 1996), Kosovan footballer Arian Kabashi (born 1997), Swedish footballer Arlan Lerio (born 1976), Filipino boxer Arian Leviste (born 1970), American electronic music artist, producer, and DJ Arian Moayed (born 1980), Iranian-born American actor and theater producer Arian Moreno (born 2003), Venezuelan footballer Surname Arian is a surname that originated in Ancient Persia Arman Arian (born 1981), Iranian author, novelist and researcher Asher Arian (1938–2010), American political scientist Asma Arian, German-Qatari human rights activist Laila Al-Arian (born 1980s), American broadcast journalist Sami Al-Arian (born 1958), Palestinian-American civil rights activist Praskovia Arian (1864–1949) Russian and Soviet writer and feminist Bruce Arians (born 1952), American football coach and former player Jake Arians (born 1978), American football player Other Arian (band), a pop band in Iran Arian (newspaper), an Iranian newspaper since 1914 Arian, an outsider's name for a member of the Polish Brethren Arian, a person born under the constellation Aries (astrology) See also Arian Kartli, ancient Georgian country Al-Arian, an Arab village in northern Israel Aaryan, a given name and surname Ariane (disambiguation), the French spelling of Ariadne, a character in Greek mythology Ariann Black, Canadian-American female magician Ariano (disambiguation) Arien (disambiguation) Arius (disambiguation) Ariyan A. Johnson Arrian, Greek historian Aryan (name) Ghamar Ariyan
Aldona (baptized Ona or Anna; her pagan name, Aldona, is known only from the writings of Maciej Stryjkowski; – 26 May 1339) was Queen consort of Poland (1333–1339), and a princess of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. She was the daughter of Gediminas, Grand Duke of Lithuania. Biography Aldona married Casimir III of Poland, when he was 15 or 16 years old. The bride was probably of about the same age. The marriage took place on 30 April or 16 October 1325 and was a purely political maneuver to strengthen the first Polish–Lithuanian coalition against the Teutonic Knights. Casimir was seeking allies in the dispute over Pomerania with the Order. Gediminas had just undertaken an unsuccessful attempt to Christianize Lithuania. This coalition was a prelude to the Union of Krewo in 1385, and the Union of Lublin in 1569, which resulted in the creation of a new state, the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. The details of the agreement are not known; however, it is known that Gediminas released all Polish captives, some 25,000 people, who returned to Poland. The importance of the marriage was attested by the fact that Władysław abandoned his earlier plans to marry his son to Jutta of Bohemia. The alliance was put into effect when joint Polish–Lithuanian forces organized an attack against the Margraviate of Brandenburg in 1326. However, the coalition was not strong and collapsed c. 1330. Yet, there is no evidence of fighting between Poland and Lithuania while Aldona was alive. Aldona died suddenly at the end of May 1339, and was buried in Kraków. Aldona was remembered for her piety and devotion to music. She was accompanied by court musicians wherever she went. It was even suggested by Jan Długosz that the cymbals which were played in procession before her represented a pagan Lithuanian tradition. Her husband Casimir is known for his romantic affairs: after Aldona's death he married three more times. Issue Aldona had two daughters: Cunigunde of Poland (died in 1357); married on 1 January 1345 Louis VI the Roman, the son of Louis IV, Holy Roman Emperor. Elisabeth (1326–1361); married Bogislaus V, Duke of Pomerania. Elisabeth's daughter, Elizabeth of Pomerania, was the fourth wife of Charles IV, Holy Roman Emperor. In popular culture Film Queen Aldona Anna is one of the main characters in the first season of Polish historical TV drama series "Korona Królów" ("The Crown of the Kings"). She is played by Marta Bryła. See also Family of Gediminas – family tree of Aldona Gediminids Aldona (fungus) (family Parmulariaceae), was named after her in 1900. References 1309 births 1339 deaths 14th-century Polish nobility Queens consort of Poland Gediminids Piast dynasty 14th-century Lithuanian people 14th-century Lithuanian women 14th-century Polish women Year of birth uncertain Lithuanian princesses Casimir III the Great
Andreas Schlüter (1659 – c. June 1714) was a German baroque sculptor and architect, active in the Holy Roman Empire of the German Nation, the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, and the Russian Tsardom. Biography Andreas Schlüter was born probably in Hamburg. His early life is obscure as at least three different persons of that name are documented. The records of St. Michaelis Church, Hamburg show that an Andreas Schlüter, son of sculptor Gerhart Schlüter, had been baptized there on 22 May 1664. Documents from Danzig/Gdańsk (Royal Prussia) reported that an Andreas Schlüter (senior) had worked 1640–1652 in Danzig's Jopengasse lane (today's ulica Piwna). Possibly born in 1640, an Andres Schliter is recorded as apprentice on 9 May 1656 by the mason's guild. Other sources state 1659 as year of birth. He probably did spend several years abroad as Journeyman. His first work, in 1675, may have been epitaphs of the Dukes Sambor and Mestwin in the dome of Pelplin monastery. Schlüter's first known work was the decoration of the facade of the Danzig Royal Chapel, in 1681. He later created statues for King John III Sobieski's Wilanów Palace in Warsaw and sepulchral sculptures in Zhovkva. In 1689, he moved to Warsaw and made the pediment reliefs and sculptural work of Krasiński Palace. Schlüter was invited to Berlin in 1694 by Eberhard von Danckelmann to work as court sculptor at the armory (Zeughaus) for Elector Frederick III. His sculpted decorations are a masterpiece of baroque expression and pathos. While the more visible reliefs on the outside had to praise fighting, the statues of dying warriors in the interior denounced war and gave an indication of his pacifist religious beliefs (he is said to have been a Mennonite). Travelling through Italy in 1696, he studied the work of masters like Michelangelo Buonarroti and Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Schlüter also worked as an architect and built many state buildings in Berlin in his role as "Hofbaumeister" (Court Architect), which he lost when one tower showed signs of a weak fundament. He also served as director of the Prussian Academy of Arts from 1702 to 1704, after which he began concentrating on sculpting again, as "Hofbildhauer" (Court Sculptor). His most important equestrian sculpture is that of the "Great Elector", Frederick William of Brandenburg, cast in 1708 and placed at "Lange Brücke" near the Berlin City Palace, now situated in the honor court before Charlottenburg Palace. The Berlin City Palace, and many of his works, were partially destroyed by bombing in World War II and by the subsequent Communist regime. A similar fate probably befell the Amber Room, made between 1701 and 1709, Schlüter's most famous work of architecture. In 1713 Schlüter's fame brought him to work for Tsar Peter the Great in Saint Petersburg, where he died of an illness after creating several designs. Together with Johann Friedrich Braunstein, he designed the Grand Palace and Monplaisir Palace in Peterhof Palace Complex. Also the city's oldest building, Kikin Hall, and the reliefs at the Summer Palace are attributed to him. This way he became an important figure of Petrine Baroque. Extant works Facade of the Royal Chapel, Gdańsk, 1681 Sculptures on the facade of Wilanów Palace, Warsaw, after 1681 Sculptures on the pediment of Krasiński Palace, Warsaw, 1682–83, 1689–1693 Epitaph of Adam Zygmunt Konarski, St. Mary's Cathedral of the Assumption, Frombork near Gdańsk, after 1683 Altar and crucifix in church, Węgrów near Warsaw, 1688–1690 Altar in Czerniaków church, Warsaw, 1690 Portrait bishop Jan Małachowski in Wawel Cathedral, Kraków 1693 Aepulchral sculptures of the Sobieski family, Zhovkva near Lviv, 1692–93 Equestrian statue of Elector Frederick William, courtyard of Charlottenburg Palace, Berlin, 1689–1703, with a copy in the Berlin Bode-Museum Sculptures on the facade of the Zeughaus in Berlin, 1695–1706 Berlin Palace, 1699–1706 Amber Room (reconstruction) in the Catherine Palace of Tsarskoye Selo near Saint Petersburg, 1701 Pulpit, St. Mary's Church, Berlin, 1703 Sarcophagi of Friedrich I and Sophia Charlotte, King and Queen in Prussia in the Berlin Cathedral References External links Biography, by Heinz Ladendorf, 1935 Article in Morgenpost newspaper dhm.de: Schlüter bio at Zeughaus English site about Kikin's Palace (Mansion House) 1664 births 1714 deaths German Baroque architects Polish Baroque architects Russian Baroque architects 17th-century German architects 18th-century German architects German Baroque sculptors Polish Baroque sculptors Polish male sculptors Ukrainian Baroque sculptors 17th-century German sculptors 18th-century German sculptors 18th-century German male artists German male sculptors 17th-century Russian sculptors 18th-century sculptors from the Russian Empire Russian male sculptors Artists from Gdańsk Architects from Hamburg People from Royal Prussia
Ash or ashes are the solid remnants of fires. Specifically, ash refers to all non-aqueous, non-gaseous residues that remain after something burns. In analytical chemistry, to analyse the mineral and metal content of chemical samples, ash is the non-gaseous, non-liquid residue after complete combustion. Ashes as the end product of incomplete combustion are mostly mineral, but usually still contain an amount of combustible organic or other oxidizable residues. The best-known type of ash is wood ash, as a product of wood combustion in campfires, fireplaces, etc. The darker the wood ashes, the higher the content of remaining charcoal from incomplete combustion. The ashes are of different types. Some ashes contain natural compounds that make soil fertile. Others have chemical compounds that can be toxic but may break up in soil from chemical changes and microorganism activity. Like soap, ash is also a disinfecting agent (alkaline). The World Health Organization recommends ash or sand as alternative for handwashing when soap is not available. Natural occurrence Ash occurs naturally from any fire that burns vegetation, and may disperse in the soil to fertilise it, or clump under it for long enough to carbonise into coal. Specific types Wood ash Products of coal combustion Bottom ash Fly ash Cigarette or cigar ash Incinerator bottom ash, a form of ash produced in incinerators Volcanic ash, ash that consists of fragmented glass, rock, and minerals that appears during an eruption. Cremation ashes Cremation ashes, also called cremated remains or "cremains," are the bodily remains left from cremation. They often take the form of a grey powder resembling coarse sand. While often referred to as ashes, the remains primarily consist of powdered bone fragments due to the cremation process, which eliminates the body's organic materials. People often store these ashes in containers like urns, although they are also sometimes buried or scattered in specific locations. See also Ash (analytical chemistry) Cinereous, consisting of ashes, ash-colored or ash-like Potash, a term for many useful potassium salts that traditionally derived from plant ashes, but today are typically mined from underground deposits coal, consisting of carbon as ash, and ash can be converted into coal carbon, basic component of ashes charcoal, carbon residue after heating wood mainly used as traditional fuel References Combustion
"The ABC Song" is the best-known song used to recite the English alphabet in alphabetical order. It is commonly used to teach the alphabet to children in English-speaking countries. "The ABC Song" was first copyrighted in 1835 by Boston music publisher Charles Bradlee. The melody is from a 1761 French music book and is also used in other nursery rhymes like "Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star". It is not known who first set the alphabet to this tune. Songs set to the same melody are also used to teach the alphabets of other languages. History The melody of "The ABC Song" was first published in the French book of music Les Amusements d’une Heure et Demy () (1761) without lyrics. It was adapted in Mozart's Twelve Variations and used in many nursery rhymes around the world, including "Ah! vous dirai-je, maman", "Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star" and later "Baa, Baa, Black Sheep", before being used in this song. It is unknown who set the alphabet to this tune. "The ABC Song" was first copyrighted in 1835 by Boston music publisher Charles Bradlee under the title "The A.B.C., a German air with variations for the flute with an easy accompaniment for the piano forte." The melody was attributed to 18th-century composer Louis Le Maire. "The ABC Song" is commonly used in preschools across English-speaking countries. Due to the speed at which 'L, M, N, O, P' is spoken it is a common misconception among children still learning the alphabet to believe that it is in fact its own letter called "elemenopee". Some have proposed teaching slower versions of the song to avoid this issue, but attempts do so have been criticized for lacking the end rhymes and the 'L, M, N, O, P" part being an essential part of the song. The television series Sesame Street has covered the song many times, collaborating with popular artists such as Stevie Wonder, Katy Perry, Nina Simone and Usher. Composition and variations Lyrics: (each line represents two measures, or eight beats) A, B, C, D, E, F, G... () H, I, J, K, L, M, N, O, P... (; "L, M, N, O" spoken twice as quickly as rest of rhyme) Q, R, S.../ T, U, V... (; pause between S and T, though in some variants, "and" is inserted) W... X.../ Y and(/&) Z. (; pause between X and Y, and W and X last for two beats) Now I know my ABCs. Next time, won't you sing with me? Lyrics for the alternate Zed version: (each line represents two measures, or eight beats) A, B, C, D, E, F, G... () H, I, J, K, L, M, N... () O, P, Q, R, S, T, U… () V, W... X, Y and(/&) Z. (; W lasts for two beats) Now I know my ABCs. Next time, won't you sing with me? Pronunciation of "Z" In the dialects spoken in most English-speaking countries, including the United Kingdom, the letter name for Z is pronounced /zɛd/ (Zed); although in American English, the dialect in mind by the composer, the letter is more commonly pronounced /ziː/ (Zee). In dialects which use the Zed pronunciation, the absent Zee-rhyme is generally not missed, although whilst singing the song, some children may accommodate for Zee which they would otherwise not use on a regular basis. Variants of the song exist to accommodate the Zed pronunciation. One such variation is shown below: a-b-c-d-e-f-g h-i-j-k-l-m-n o-p-q-r-s-t-u v-w-x-y-z(ed) This version has no closing line and the tune is modified accordingly. There is no lengthening of the W in this version. Backwards alphabet Several versions exist covering the alphabet backwards, i.e. Z to A. One version is shown below. z-y-x and(/&) w v-u-t, s-r-q p-o-n-m-l-k-j i-h-g-f-e-d-c-b-a Now you know your ZYXs I bet that's not what you expected! The e-d-c-b part is as fast as the l-m-n-o part in the normal alphabet song. Versions for other languages The same melody used for "The ABC Song" has also been used for the German, French, and Arabic alphabets. A French-language version of the song is also taught in Canada, with generally no alterations to the melody except in the final line that requires adjustment to accommodate the two-syllable pronunciation of the French y. See also Traditional alphabet songs in other languages "A Haka Mana" recites the syllabary of the Māori language to the tune of Stupid Cupid "Alef-Bet" by Debbie Friedman, a song commonly used in American Hebrew school classrooms to teach the letters of the Hebrew alphabet "Iroha", a recital of the Japanese syllabary "Shiva Sutra", Sanskrit "Thousand Character Classic", Chinese and Korean Hanja "Ganada" (), Korean Hangul "Zengő ABC" by Ferenc Móra, Hungarian "Алфавит мы уже знаем", Russian "Adalama" ( A, da, la, ma...), devised for Fulani speakers in West Africa to memorise the Adlam script. There are several recordings of the Cherokee syllabary with this melody. A singable version for memorising the Déné/Carrier syllabics chart. Notes References Songs about language Children's songs Early childhood education Song Traditional children's songs
The Antigonid dynasty (; ) was a Hellenistic dynasty of Dorian Greek provenance, descended from Alexander the Great's general Antigonus I Monophthalmus ("the One-Eyed") that ruled mainly in Macedonia. History In 309 BC, Cassander commanded Glaucias to secretly assassinate the 14-year-old Alexander IV of Macedon and his mother. The Macedonian Argead dynasty became extinct. In 306 BC, after defeating Ptolemy at the naval Battle of Salamis, Demetrius I conquered Cyprus. Following that victory Antigonus I assumed the title of Basileus (King of Alexander's Empire) and bestowed the same upon his son. Antigonus I ruled mostly over Asia Minor and northern Syria. His attempts to take control of the whole of Alexander's empire led to his defeat and death at the Battle of Ipsus in 301 BC. Antigonus's son Demetrius I Poliorcetes survived the battle, and managed to seize control of Macedon itself a few years later, but eventually lost his throne, dying as a prisoner of Seleucus I Nicator. After a period of confusion, Demetrius's son Antigonus II Gonatas was able to establish the family's control over the old Kingdom of Macedon, as well as over most of the Greek city-states, by 276 BC. Legacy It was one of four dynasties established by Alexander's successors, the others being the Seleucid dynasty, Ptolemaic dynasty and Antipatrid dynasty. The last scion of the dynasty, Perseus of Macedon, who reigned between 179 and 168 BC, proved unable to stop the advancing Roman legions and Macedon's defeat at the Battle of Pydna signaled the end of the dynasty. Dynasty The ruling members of the Antigonid dynasty were: The Greek rebel against Rome and last King of Macedonia, Andriscus, claimed to be the son of Perseus. Family tree of Antigonids Coin gallery See also List of kings of Macedon References Further reading Adams, Winthrop Lindsay. 2010. "Alexander's Successors to 221 BC." In A Companion to Ancient Macedonia. Edited by Joseph Roisman and Ian Worthington, 208–224. Malden, MA: Wiley-Blackwell. Anson, Edward M. 2014. Alexander's Heirs: The Age of the Successors. Malden, MA: Wiley-Blackwell. Edson, Charles F. 1934. "The Antigonids, Heracles, and Beroia." Harvard Studies in Classical Philology 45:213–246. O'Neil, James L. 2003. "The Ethnic Origins of the Friends of the Antigonid Kings of Macedon." The Classical Quarterly 53, no. 2: 510–22. https://www.jstor.org/stable/3556219. The Antigonid Network. https://blogs.exeter.ac.uk/theantigonidnetwork/. Containing information about academic research, seminars, and related bibliographies and links. Ancient Macedonian dynasties 3rd century BC in Macedonia (ancient kingdom) 2nd century BC in Macedonia (ancient kingdom) 300s BC establishments 306 BC 4th-century BC establishments 2nd-century BC disestablishments 168 BC
Abingdon may refer to: Places United Kingdom Abingdon-on-Thames, Oxfordshire Abingdon (UK Parliament constituency) 1558–1983 Abingdon railway station (closed) United States Abingdon, Iowa Abingdon, Illinois Abingdon, Maryland Abingdon, Virginia Abingdon (plantation), Virginia Other countries Abingdon Downs, Queensland, Australia Abingdon Airport Abingdon, Ontario, Canada Abingdon Island, Galápagos Islands, Ecuador Other uses Abingdon (1902 automobile) Abingdon (1922 automobile) Abingdon Arms, in Oxford, England Abingdon Motorcycles, a former British motorcycle manufacturer Abingdon Press, publishing house of the United Methodist Church Abingdon Road, in Oxford, England Abingdon School, in Abingdon-on-Thames, England Earl of Abingdon, a title in the Peerage of England , a U.S. Navy ship See also Abington (disambiguation)
Abjuration is the solemn repudiation, abandonment, or renunciation by or upon oath, often the renunciation of citizenship or some other right or privilege. The term comes from the Latin abjurare, "to forswear". Abjuration of the realm Abjuration of the realm was a type of abjuration in ancient English law. The person taking the oath swore to leave the country directly and promptly, never to return to the kingdom unless by permission of the sovereign. This was often taken by fugitives who had taken sanctuary: English Commonwealth Near the start of the English Civil War, on 18 August 1643 Parliament passed "An Ordinance for Explanation of a former Ordinance for Sequestration of Delinquents Estates with some Enlargements." The enlargements included an oath which became known as the "Oath of Abjuration": In 1656–7, it was reissued in what was for Catholics an even more objectionable form. Everyone was to be "adjudged a Papist" who refused this oath, and the consequent penalties began with the confiscation of two-thirds of the recusant's goods, and went on to deprive him of almost every civic right. The Catholic Encyclopaedia makes the point that the oath and the penalties were so severe that it stopped the efforts of the Gallicanizing party among the English Catholics, who had been ready to offer forms of submission similar to the old oath of Allegiance, which was condemned anew about this time by Pope Innocent X. Scotland During The Killing Time of the 1680s an Abjuration Oath could be put to suspects where they were given the option to abjure or renounce their allegiances. The terms of the oath were deliberately designed to offend the consciences of the Presbyterian Covenanters. Those who would not swear "whether they have arms, or not" could be "immediately killed" by field trial "before two witnesses" on a charge of high treason. John Brown was included among those executed in this judicial process by John Graham (Bluidy Clavers) on 1 May 1685. The wives and children of such men could also be put out of their houses if they had spoken to the suspect or refused the oath themselves. Great Britain and Ireland In England (and after 1707 Great Britain) the Oath of Abjuration denied the royal title of James II's heirs (i.e. the direct Catholic descendant of the House of Stuart exiled after the Glorious Revolution in 1688). In England, an Oath of Abjuration was taken by Members of Parliament, clergy, and laymen, pledging to support the current British monarch and repudiated the right of the Stuarts and other claimants to the throne. This oath was imposed under William III, George I and George III. It was superseded by the oath of allegiance. In Ireland, the oath was imposed of state officeholders, teachers, lawyers, and on the clergy of the established church in from 1703, the following year it was on all Irish voters and from 1709 it could be demanded of any adult male by a magistrate. Bilino Polje abjuration The Bilino Polje abjuration, also known as "Confessio Christianorum bosniensis", was an act of alleged heresy abjuration by clergy of the Bosnian Church in presence of the Bosnian ruler, Ban Kulin, and Giovanni da Casamari. It affirmed the primacy of the pope and related to errors of practice, stemming from ignorance, rather than heretical doctrines. It was signed by seven Bosnian priors, on 8 April 1203 at Bilino Polje field, near today town of Zenica, in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The same document was brought to Buda, in 30 April by Giovanni da Casamari, Ban Kulin and two abbots, where it was examined by Emeric, King of Hungary, and the high clergy. The Netherlands Another famous abjuration was brought about by the Plakkaat van Verlatinghe of July 26, 1581, the formal declaration of independence of the Low Countries from the Spanish king, Philip II. This oath was the climax of the Eighty Years' War (Dutch Revolt). See also English post-Reformation oaths Papists Act 1716 Notes External links Latin legal terminology Oaths
Abitibi may refer to: Election districts in Canada Abitibi—Témiscamingue Abitibi—Baie-James—Nunavik—Eeyou Abitibi (provincial electoral district) Places in Canada Abitibi Canyon, Ontario, community on the Abitibi River Abitibi Canyon Generating Station, hydroelectric power plant Abitibi County, Quebec, historical county in southwestern Quebec Abitibi gold belt, a gold mining region spanning the border of Ontario and Quebec Abitibi Regional County Municipality, Quebec Abitibi River Abitibi-Ontario Band of Abitibi Indians, or Abitibi, former name of Wahgoshig First Nation Abitibi-Témiscamingue, administrative region in Quebec Lake Abitibi Other uses AbitibiBowater, former name of Resolute Forest Products, a pulp and paper manufacturing company Abitibi-Consolidated, the company that merged with Bowater to create AbitibiBowater Abitibi (train), former name of the Montreal–Senneterre train in Canada Abitibi Eskimos, former name of the Timmins Rock, an ice hockey team in Canada
The Azawakh is a breed of dog from West Africa. With ancient origins, it is raised throughout the Sahelian zone of Mali, Niger, and Burkina Faso. This region includes the Azawagh Valley for which the breed is named. While commonly associated with the nomadic Tuareg people, they are also bred and owned by other ethnic groups such as the Peulh, Bella, and Hausa. The Azawakh is more related to the Sloughi than it is to the Saluki. Description Appearance Slim and elegant, with bone structure and muscles showing through thin skin. Eyes are almond-shaped. The coat is very short and almost absent on the belly. Its bone structure shows clearly through the skin and musculature. Its muscles are "dry", meaning that they are quite flat, unlike the Greyhound and Whippet. In this respect it is similar in type to the Saluki. Colours Colours permitted by the Fédération Cynologique Internationale (FCI) breed standard are clear sand to dark fawn/brown, red and brindle (with or without a dark mask), with white bib, tail tip, and white on all feet (which can be tips of toes to high stockings). Since 2015 white stockings that go above the elbow joint are considered disqualifying features in the FCI member countries, as is a white collar or half collar (Irish marked). Some conservationists support the idea that in Africa, Azawakhs are still found in a variety of colours such as red, blue fawn (that is, with a lilac cast), grizzle, and, rarely, blue and black with various white markings including Irish marked (white collar) and particolour (mostly white). Because of this wide color variation in the native population, the American standard used by the AKC and UKC allows any color combination found in Africa. (AKC and UKC are not a member of the FCI) Movement The Azawakh's light, supple, lissome gait is a notable breed characteristic, as is an upright double suspension gallop. Health Azawakhs are an incredibly sound coursing hound. There is a small occurrence of adult-onset idiopathic epilepsy in the breed. Wobbler disease, or cervical vertebral instability, does rarely occur. Reproduction Unassisted birth of healthy puppies is normal. Litter sizes are usually from four to six puppies, but litters as small as one and as large as ten occur. Temperament Bred by the Tuareg, Fula and various other nomads of the Sahara and sub-Saharan Sahel in the countries of Mali, Niger, Burkina Faso, and southern Algeria, the breed known by the tuaregs as ”Oska” was used there as a guard dog and to hunt gazelle and hare at speeds up to . The austerity of the Sahel environment has ensured that only the most fit dogs survive and has accentuated the breed's ruggedness and independence. Unlike some other sighthounds, the Azawakh is more of a pack hunter and they bump down the quarry with hindquarters when it has been tired out. In role of a guard dog, if an Azawakh senses danger it will bark to alert the other members of the pack, and they will gather together as a pack under the lead of the alpha dog, then chase off or attack the predator. The Sloughi, by comparison, is more of an independent lone hunter and has a high hunting instinct. Azawakhs have a range of temperaments from lap dog to quite fierce. Lifelong socialization and gentle handling are critical. Well socialised and trained, they can be good with other dogs, cats, children, and strangers. Unlike other sighthounds, the primary function of the Azawakh in its native land is that of protector. It develops an intense bond with its owner, yet can perform independently from its master. With those they accept, Azawakh are gentle and extremely affectionate. With strangers many are reserved and prefer not to be touched, but are not inherently aggressive. Although raised to guard against predators, they do not have innate aggression toward canines or humans unless they are threatened. Azawakh have high energy and tremendous endurance. They are excellent training companions for runners. Many Azawakh dislike rain and cold weather. Azawakh are pack oriented and form complex social hierarchies. They have tremendous memories and are able to recognize each other after long periods of separation. They can often be found sleeping on top of each other for warmth and companionship. Alberto Rossi: "To raise an Azawakh is like building a very fragile construction, which takes a lot of sensibility and can be destroyed from one minute to the next. But every minute it lasts, it fills you with great happiness. Every time I´m sitting in a chair or sofa at least one of my dogs tries to take a seat on my lap. The same happens to those of my guests which they love. In these moments they seem to be the image of calmness, gentleness, and trust. But one should not be deceived about this. In the deepest place of their soul resides something wild and native, and they will remind us about it with the first occasion and we should not forget, even for a moment, not to treat them like a normal dog." Breed history The breed is relatively uncommon in Europe and North America but there is a growing band of devotees. Azawakh may be registered with the FCI in the USA via the Federación Canófila de Puerto Rico (FCPR). European FCI clubs and the AKC recognize the FCPR as an acceptable registry. The AKC (not a member of the FCI) currently recognizes Azawakh as a Foundation Stock Service breed and they are eligible to participate in AKC-sanctioned Companion & Performance events. The breed will enter the AKC Miscellaneous Class on June 30, 2011. The American Azawakh Association (AAA). is the AKC Parent Club for the Azawakh. Azawakh may be registered with the UKC and ARBA. The breed is not yet registered by CKC. Azawakh are eligible for ASFA and AKC lure coursing and NOFCA open field coursing events. See also Dogs portal List of dog breeds References External links Rare Breed Network: The Azawakh American Azawakh Association Foundation Azawakhs and Other Imports from Africa FCI breeds Sighthounds Tuareg Dog breeds originating in Africa Rare dog breeds Breeds originating from Indigenous people
The plum pudding model is one of several historical scientific models of the atom. First proposed by J. J. Thomson in 1904 soon after the discovery of the electron, but before the discovery of the atomic nucleus, the model tried to account for two properties of atoms then known: that electrons are negatively charged subatomic particles and that atoms have no net electric charge. The plum pudding model has electrons surrounded by a volume of positive charge, like negatively charged "plums" embedded in a positively charged "pudding". Overview It had been known for many years that atoms contain negatively charged subatomic particles. Thomson called them "corpuscles" (particles), but they were more commonly called "electrons", the name G. J. Stoney had coined for the "fundamental unit quantity of electricity" in 1891. It had also been known for many years that atoms have no net electric charge. Thomson held that atoms must also contain some positive charge that cancels out the negative charge of their electrons. Thomson published his proposed model in the March 1904 edition of the Philosophical Magazine, the leading British science journal of the day. In Thomson's view: ... the atoms of the elements consist of a number of negatively electrified corpuscles enclosed in a sphere of uniform positive electrification, ... Thomson's model was the first to assign a specific inner structure to an atom, though his original description did not include mathematical formulas. He had followed the work of William Thomson who had written a paper proposing a vortex atom in 1867, J.J. Thomson abandoned his 1890 "nebular atom" hypothesis, based on the vortex theory of the atom, in which atoms were composed of immaterial vortices and suggested there were similarities between the arrangement of vortices and periodic regularity found among the chemical elements. Thomson based his atomic model on known experimental evidence of the day, and in fact, followed Lord Kelvin's lead again as Kelvin had proposed a positive sphere atom a year earlier. Thomson's proposal, based on Kelvin's model of a positive volume charge, served to guide future experiments. The main objective of Thomson's model after its initial publication was to account for the electrically neutral and chemically varied state of the atom. Electron orbits were stable under classical mechanics. When an electron moves away from the center of the positively charged sphere it is subjected to a greater net positive inward force due to the presence of more positive charge inside its orbit (see Gauss's law). Electrons were free to rotate in rings that were further stabilized by interactions among the electrons, and spectroscopic measurements were meant to account for energy differences associated with different electron rings. As for the properties of matter, Thomson believed they arose from electrical effects. He further emphasized the need of a theory to help picture the physical and chemical aspects of an atom using the theory of corpuscles and positive charge. Thomson attempted unsuccessfully to reshape his model to account for some of the major spectral lines experimentally known for several elements. After the scientific discovery of radioactivity, Thomson decided to address it in his model by stating: ... we must face the problem of the constitution of the atom, and see if we can imagine a model which has in it the potentiality of explaining the remarkable properties shown by radio-active substances ... Thomson's model changed over the course of its initial publication, finally becoming a model with much more mobility containing electrons revolving in the dense field of positive charge rather than a static structure. Despite this, the colloquial nickname "plum pudding" was soon attributed to Thomson's model as the distribution of electrons within its positively charged region of space reminded many scientists of raisins, then called "plums", in the common English dessert, plum pudding. In 1909, Hans Geiger and Ernest Marsden conducted experiments where alpha particles were fired through thin sheets of gold. Their professor, Ernest Rutherford, expected to find results consistent with Thomson's atomic model. However, when the results were published in 1911, they instead implied the presence of a very small nucleus of positive charge at the center of each gold atom. This led to the development of the Rutherford model of the atom. Immediately after Rutherford published his results, Antonius van den Broek made the intuitive proposal that the atomic number of an atom is the total number of units of charge present in its nucleus. Henry Moseley's 1913 experiments (see Moseley's law) provided the necessary evidence to support Van den Broek's proposal. The effective nuclear charge was found to be consistent with the atomic number (Moseley found only one unit of charge difference). This work culminated in the solar-system-like Bohr model of the atom in the same year, in which a nucleus containing an atomic number of positive charges is surrounded by an equal number of electrons in orbital shells. As Thomson's model guided Rutherford's experiments, Bohr's model guided Moseley's research. The Bohr model was elaborated upon during the time of the "old quantum theory", and then subsumed by the full-fledged development of quantum mechanics. Related scientific problems As an important example of a scientific model, the plum pudding model has motivated and guided several related scientific problems. Mathematical Thomson problem A particularly useful mathematics problem related to the plum pudding model is the optimal distribution of equal point charges on a unit sphere, called the Thomson problem. The Thomson problem is a natural consequence of the plum pudding model in the absence of its uniform positive background charge. References Foundational quantum physics Atoms Electron Periodic table Obsolete theories in physics
AI is artificial intelligence, intellectual ability in machines and robots. Ai, AI or A.I. may also refer to: Animals Ai (chimpanzee), an individual experimental subject in Japan Ai (sloth) or the pale-throated sloth, northern Amazonian mammal species Arts, entertainment and media Works Ai (album), a 2004 release by Seraphim A.I. Artificial Intelligence, a 2001 American film A.I. Rising, a 2018 Serbian film AI: The Somnium Files, a 2019 video game American Idol, televised singing contest The American Interest, a bimonthly magazine (2005–2020) I (2015 film), an Indian Tamil film (initial title: Ai) Other uses in arts and media A.i. (band), a Californian rock–electroclash group All in (poker), wagering one's entire stake Appreciation Index, a British measure of broadcast programme approval The Art Institutes, a chain of American art schools Non-player character, in gaming (colloquially, an AI) Business , a phrase in job titles Appreciative inquiry, an organizational development method All-inclusive, a full service at a vacation resort including meals and drinks Organizations and businesses Accuracy International, a firearms manufacturer Adventure International, a video game publisher Air India, the flag carrier airline of India, based in Delhi Alitalia, the former flag carrier airline of Italy Astra International, an Indonesian automotive company Alexis I. duPont High School, Delaware, U.S. Amnesty International, a human rights organisation Appraisal Institute, an association of real estate appraisers The Art Institutes, a chain of art schools People Ai (surname), a Chinese surname Ai (given name), a given name and list of people and characters with the name King Ai of Zhou (died 441 BC) Emperor Ai of Han (27–1 BC) Emperor Ai of Jin (341–365) Emperor Ai of Tang (892–908) Ai (poet) (1947–2010), American poet Ai (singer) (born 1981), Japanese-American singer and songwriter Allen Iverson (born 1975), American retired professional basketball player ("A.I.") Andre Iguodala (born 1984), American professional basketball player ("A.I. 2.0") Places Areas Anguilla, a Caribbean territory (by ISO 3166-1 code) Appenzell Innerrhoden, a Swiss canton Cities Ai (Canaan), Biblical city United States Ai, Alabama Ai, Georgia Ai, North Carolina Ai, Ohio Landforms Religion, philosophy and mythology Ái, a Norse god Ai (Canaan), Biblical city Ai (), Sinic concepts of love from Confucianism and Buddhism , colloquially , a Greek word for 'saint' Ai Toyon, the Yakut god of light Science and technology Agricultural science Active ingredient, part of a pesticide Artificial insemination of livestock and pets, in animal breeding Air force and aviation Airborne Internet, a proposed air-to-air data network Airborne Interception radar, a Royal Air Force air-to-air system Air interdiction, an aerial military capability Attitude indicator, a flight instrument on aircraft The Internet .ai, a top-level domain Medical conditions Accommodative insufficiency of the eye Amelogenesis imperfecta of teeth Aortic insufficiency of the heart Medicines and healthcare Active ingredient, part of a drug Adequate intake, a Dietary Reference Intake nutritional parameter Aromatase inhibitor, a class of breast-cancer drug Articulation Index, a method of measuring hearing loss Artificial insemination, a method of fertilisation Automated immunoassay, automated clinical analyses of blood Visual arts technologies Adobe Illustrator, a vector graphics editor .ai, Adobe Illustrator Artwork filename extension Automatic Maximum-Aperture Indexing, aperture coupling on Nikon camera lenses See also Artificial intelligence (disambiguation) Art Institute (disambiguation) All In (disambiguation) A1 (disambiguation) AL (disambiguation) AY (disambiguation) Aye (disambiguation) Eye (disambiguation)
The Latin American Integration Association / Asociación Latinoamericana de Integración / Associação Latino-Americana de Integração (LAIA / ALADI) is an international and regional scope organization. It was created on 12 August 1980 by the 1980 Montevideo Treaty, replacing the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA/ALALC). Currently, it has 13 member countries, and any of the Latin American States may apply for accession. Objectives The development of the integration process developed within the framework of the ALADI aims at promoting the harmonious and balanced socio-economic development of the region, and its long-term objective is the gradual and progressive establishment of a Latin-American single market. Basic functions Promotion and regulation of reciprocal trade Economic complementation Development of economic cooperation actions contributing to the markets extension. General principles Pluralism in political and economic matters; Progressive convergence of partial actions for the establishment of a Latin-American Common Market; Flexibility; Differential treatments based on the development level of the member countries; and Multiple forms of trade agreements. Integration mechanisms The ALADI promotes the establishment of an area of economic preferences within the region, in order to create a Latin-American common market, through three mechanisms: A Regional Tariff Preference applied to goods from the member countries compared to tariffs in-force for third countries. Regional Scope Agreements, those in which all member countries participate. Partial Scope Agreements, those wherein two or more countries of the area participate. The Relatively Less Economically Developed Countries of the region (Bolivia, Ecuador and Paraguay) benefit from a preferential system, through the lists of markets opening offered by the countries in favor of the Relatively Less Economically Developed Countries; special programs of cooperation (business rounds, pre-investment, financing, technological support); and countervailing measures in favor of the land-locked countries, the full participation of such countries in the integration process is sought. The ALADI includes in its legal structure the strongest sub-regional, plurilateral and bilateral integration agreements arising in growing numbers in the continent. As a result, the ALADI – as an institutional and legal framework or “umbrella” of the regional integration- develops actions in order to support and foster these efforts for the progressive establishment of a common economic space. Member states Accession of other Latin American countries The 1980 Montevideo Treaty is open to the accession of any Latin-American country. On 26 August 1999, the first accession to the 1980 Montevideo Treaty was executed, with the incorporation of the Republic of Cuba as a member country of the ALADI. On 10 May 2012, the Republic of Panama became the thirteenth member country of the ALADI. Likewise, the accession of the Republic of Nicaragua was accepted in the Sixteenth Meeting of the Council of Ministers (Resolution 75 (XVI)), held on 11 August 2011. Currently, Nicaragua moves towards the fulfillment of conditions for becoming a member country of the ALADI. The ALADI opens its field of actions for the rest of Latin America through multilateral links or partial agreements with other countries and integration areas of the continent (Article 25). The Latin-American Integration Association also contemplates the horizontal cooperation with other integration movements in the world and partial actions with third developing countries or their respective integration areas (Article 27). Institutional structure Council of Ministers of Foreign Affairs The Council of Ministers is the supreme body of the ALADI, and adopts the decisions for the superior political management of the integration process. It is constituted by the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the member countries. Notwithstanding, when one of such member countries assigns the competence of the integration affairs to a different Minister or Secretary of State, the member countries may be represented, with full powers, by the respective Minister or Secretary. It is convened by the Committee of Representatives, meets and makes decisions with the presence of all the member countries. Evaluation and Convergence Conference It is in charge, among others, of analyzing the functioning of the integration process in all its aspects, promoting the convergence of the partial scope agreements seeking their progressive multilateralization, and promoting greater scope actions as regards economic integration. It is made up of Plenipotentiaries of the member countries. Committee of Representatives It is the permanent political body and negotiating forum of the ALADI, where all the initiatives for the fulfillment of the objectives established by the 1980 Montevideo Treaty are analyzed and agreed on. It is composed of a Permanent Representative of each member country with right to one vote and an Alternate Representative. It meets regularly every 15 days and its Resolutions are adopted by the affirmative vote of two thirds of the member countries. General Secretariat It is the technical body of the ALADI, and it may propose, evaluate, study and manage for the fulfillment of the objectives of the ALADI. It is composed of technical and administrative personnel, and directed by a Secretary-General, who has the support of two Undersecretaries, elected for a three-year period, renewable for the same term. Secretaries general 1980–1984 Julio César Schupp (Paraguay) 1984–1987 Juan José Real (Uruguay) 1987–1990 Norberto Bertaina (Argentina) 1990–1993 Jorge Luis Ordóñez (Colombia) 1993–1999 Antônio José de Cerqueira Antunes (Brasil) 2000–2005 Juan Francisco Rojas Penso (Venezuela) 2005–2008 Didier Opertti (Uruguay) 2008–2009 Bernardino Hugo Saguier-Caballero (Paraguay) 2009–2011 José Félix Fernández Estigarribia (Paraguay) 2011–2017 Carlos Álvarez (Argentina) 2017– Alejandro de la Peña Navarrete (Mexico) See also Free trade Free trade area International trade Central America Free Trade Agreement Free Trade Area of the Americas Latin American economy Trade bloc Mercosur Andean Community of Nations Union of South American Nations Central American Integration System Caribbean Community Latin American Economic System Latin American Parliament PetroCaribe References Latin America Trade blocs United Nations General Assembly observers Organizations based in Montevideo Organizations established in 1980 Palermo, Montevideo International organizations based in the Americas
In the field of artificial intelligence, the most difficult problems are informally known as AI-complete or AI-hard, implying that the difficulty of these computational problems, assuming intelligence is computational, is equivalent to that of solving the central artificial intelligence problem—making computers as intelligent as people, or strong AI. To call a problem AI-complete reflects an attitude that it would not be solved by a simple specific algorithm. AI-complete problems are hypothesised to include computer vision, natural language understanding, and dealing with unexpected circumstances while solving any real-world problem. Currently, AI-complete problems cannot be solved with modern computer technology alone, but would also require human computation. This property could be useful, for example, to test for the presence of humans as CAPTCHAs aim to do, and for computer security to circumvent brute-force attacks. History The term was coined by Fanya Montalvo by analogy with NP-complete and NP-hard in complexity theory, which formally describes the most famous class of difficult problems. Early uses of the term are in Erik Mueller's 1987 PhD dissertation and in Eric Raymond's 1991 Jargon File. AI-complete problems AI-complete problems are hypothesized to include: AI peer review (composite natural language understanding, automated reasoning, automated theorem proving, formalized logic expert system) Bongard problems Computer vision (and subproblems such as object recognition) Natural language understanding (and subproblems such as text mining, machine translation, and word-sense disambiguation) Autonomous driving Dealing with unexpected circumstances while solving any real world problem, whether it's navigation or planning or even the kind of reasoning done by expert systems. Machine translation To translate accurately, a machine must be able to understand the text. It must be able to follow the author's argument, so it must have some ability to reason. It must have extensive world knowledge so that it knows what is being discussed — it must at least be familiar with all the same commonsense facts that the average human translator knows. Some of this knowledge is in the form of facts that can be explicitly represented, but some knowledge is unconscious and closely tied to the human body: for example, the machine may need to understand how an ocean makes one feel to accurately translate a specific metaphor in the text. It must also model the authors' goals, intentions, and emotional states to accurately reproduce them in a new language. In short, the machine is required to have wide variety of human intellectual skills, including reason, commonsense knowledge and the intuitions that underlie motion and manipulation, perception, and social intelligence. Machine translation, therefore, is believed to be AI-complete: it may require strong AI to be done as well as humans can do it. Software brittleness Current AI systems can solve very simple and/or restricted versions of AI-complete problems, but never in their full generality. When AI researchers attempt to "scale up" their systems to handle more complicated, real-world situations, the programs tend to become excessively brittle without commonsense knowledge or a rudimentary understanding of the situation: they fail as unexpected circumstances outside of its original problem context begin to appear. When human beings are dealing with new situations in the world, they are helped immensely by the fact that they know what to expect: they know what all things around them are, why they are there, what they are likely to do and so on. They can recognize unusual situations and adjust accordingly. A machine without strong AI has no other skills to fall back on. DeepMind published a work in May 2022 in which they trained a single model to do several things at the same time. The model, named Gato, can "play Atari, caption images, chat, stack blocks with a real robot arm and much more, deciding based on its context whether to output text, joint torques, button presses, or other tokens." Formalization Computational complexity theory deals with the relative computational difficulty of computable functions. By definition, it does not cover problems whose solution is unknown or has not been characterised formally. Since many AI problems have no formalisation yet, conventional complexity theory does not allow the definition of AI-completeness. To address this problem, a complexity theory for AI has been proposed. It is based on a model of computation that splits the computational burden between a computer and a human: one part is solved by computer and the other part solved by human. This is formalised by a human-assisted Turing machine. The formalisation defines algorithm complexity, problem complexity and reducibility which in turn allows equivalence classes to be defined. The complexity of executing an algorithm with a human-assisted Turing machine is given by a pair , where the first element represents the complexity of the human's part and the second element is the complexity of the machine's part. Results The complexity of solving the following problems with a human-assisted Turing machine is: Optical character recognition for printed text: Turing test: for an -sentence conversation where the oracle remembers the conversation history (persistent oracle): for an -sentence conversation where the conversation history must be retransmitted: for an -sentence conversation where the conversation history must be retransmitted and the person takes linear time to read the query: ESP game: Image labelling (based on the Arthur–Merlin protocol): Image classification: human only: , and with less reliance on the human: . See also ASR-complete List of unsolved problems in computer science Synthetic intelligence Practopoiesis References Artificial intelligence Computational problems
Amanda Hesser (born 1971) is an American food writer, editor, cookbook author and entrepreneur. Most notably, she was the food editor of The New York Times Magazine, the editor of T Living, a quarterly publication of The New York Times, author of The Essential New York Times Cookbook which was a New York Times bestseller, and co-founder and CEO of Food52. Biography After finishing her first book, in 1997, Hesser was hired as a food reporter for The New York Times where she wrote more than 750 stories. While at the Times, Hesser wrote about the influence of Costco on the wine industry, and how the Farmer Consumer Advisory Committee made decisions for the New York City Greenmarket. She was also among the first to write about Ferran Adrià of El Bulli in a major American publication. Hesser was involved in two cases of conflict of interest while working at the Times. In 2004, she awarded the restaurant Spice Market a three-star rating without disclosing that the year before, the restaurant's owner, Jean-Georges Vongerichten, had provided a complimentary jacket blurb for her book Cooking for Mr. Latte. In 2007, Hesser published a favorable review of Vegetable Harvest by Patricia Wells without noting that in 1999, Wells had provided a jacket blurb for Hesser's book The Cook and the Gardener. In both cases, the Times subsequently pointed out the conflicts of interest with editors' notes. While Hesser left the Times in March 2008 to focus on the development of Food52, she continued to write the "Recipe Redux" feature for the Times magazine until February 27, 2011. As co-founder and CEO of Food52, she has raised two rounds of investment from parties including Lerer Hippeau Ventures and Bertelsmann Digital Media Investments. Food52 has won numerous notable awards, including the James Beard Foundation Award for Publication of the Year (2012) and the International Association of Culinary Professionals Award for Best Website (2013). In February 2017, noting that 92 percent of the company was white, she and her co-founder Merrill Stubbs "issued a statement about the ways in which the company intended to redress a lack of racial equality in its workplace." By the following January, "they published a follow-up letter updating readers on the progress of their efforts, stating that their staff had been reduced to being 76 percent white." Hesser was featured in Food & Wine'''s 40 under 40 list, was named one of the 50 most influential women in food by Gourmet magazine, and had a cameo as herself in the film Julie & Julia. Hesser lives in Brooklyn Heights with her husband, Tad Friend, a staff writer for The New Yorker, and their two children. Bibliography BooksThe Cook and the Gardener (W. W. Norton & Company, 1999)Cooking for Mr. Latte: A Food Lover's Courtship, with Recipes (W. W. Norton & Company, 2004) [Collected Food Diary columns she wrote from 2000 to 2002]Eat, Memory: Great Writers at the Table, a Collection of Essays from the New York Times (W. W. Norton & Company, 2009) [Edited 26 previously published essays]The Essential New York Times Cookbook: Classic Recipes for a New Century (W. W. Norton & Company, 2010)The Food52 Cookbook: 140 Winning Recipes from Exceptional Home Cooks (William Morrow Cookbooks, 2011)The Food52 Cookbook, Volume 2: Seasonal Recipes from Our Kitchens to Yours (William Morrow Cookbooks, 2012)Food52 Genius Recipes: 100 Recipes That Will Change the Way You Cook (Ten Speed Press, 2015)Food52 Vegan: 60 Vegetable-Driven Recipes for Any Kitchen (Ten Speed Press, 2015)Food52 Baking: 60 Sensational Treats You Can Pull Off in a Snap (Ten Speed Press, 2015)Food52 A New Way to Dinner: A Playbook of Recipes and Strategies for the Week Ahead (Ten Speed Press, 2016)Food52 Mighty Salads: 60 New Ways to Turn Salad into Dinner (Ten Speed Press, 2017)Food52 Ice Cream and Friends: 60 Recipes and Riffs for Sorbets, Sandwiches, No-Churn Ice Creams, and More (Ten Speed Press, 2017)Food52 Any Night Grilling: 60 Ways to Fire Up Dinner (and More) (Ten Speed Press, 2018)Food52 Genius Desserts: 100 Recipes That Will Change the Way You Bake (Ten Speed Press, 2018) eBooks "Food 52 Holiday Recipes & Party Planning Guide: A cookbook, instruction manual, and entertaining battle plan" (Open Air Publishing, 2011) Anthologized worksWomen Who Eat (2003)Best Food Writing (2002, 2004)The Art of Eating (2004)Alone in the Kitchen with an Eggplant (2007)Eat, Memory: Great Writers at the Table'' (2009) References External links 1972 births Living people American food writers Women food writers Women cookbook writers People from Brooklyn Heights American women chief executives American company founders American women company founders International Association of Culinary Professionals award winners 21st-century American women
is a Japanese name and may refer to: Places 8182 Akita, a main-belt asteroid Akita Castle, a Nara period fortified settlement in Akita, Japan Akita Domain, also known as Kubota Domain, feudal domain in Edo period Japan Akita, Kumamoto, a former town Akita Prefecture, Japan Akita (city) Akita-Yake-Yama, a small stratovolcano in Akita Prefecture, Japan People Akita clan, a Japanese samurai clan of northern Honshū Akita (surname), for people with the surname Art, entertainment, and media Akita (Ninjago), a character in Ninjago "", a folk song of Akita Prefecture, Japan Akita ranga, a Japanese school of painting Companies Akita Asahi Broadcasting, a Japanese broadcast network Akita Bank, a Japanese regional bank Akita Broadcasting System, a Japanese television and radio broadcaster Akita Shoten, a Japanese publishing company Akita Television, a television station in Akita, Japan Education Akita International University, a public university in Akita, Japan Akita Municipal Junior College of Arts and Crafts, a municipal junior college in Akita, Japan Akita Nutrition Junior College, a private university in Akita, Japan Akita Prefectural University, a Japanese prefectural university in Akita, Japan Akita University, a Japanese national university in Akita, Japan Akita University of Art, a public university in Akita, Japan Akita University of Nursing and Welfare, a private university in Ōdate, Japan Cultural institutions Akita Museum of Art, an art museum in Akita, Japan Akita Museum of Modern Art, a museum in Yokote, Akita Prefecture, Japan Akita Omoriyama Zoo, a municipal zoo in Akita, Japan Akita Prefectural Museum, a prefectural museum in Akita, Japan Akita Senshū Museum of Art, a museum in Akita, Japan Sports Akita Northern Happinets, a Japanese professional basketball Akita Prefectural Baseball Stadium, a baseball stadium in Akita, Japan Akita Prefectural Gymnasium, a stadium in Akita, Japan Blaublitz Akita, a Japanese association football team Transportation Akita Airport, a regional/second class airport in Akita, Japan Akita Expressway, a national expressway in Japan Akita Nairiku Line, a Japanese railway line Akita Relay, a former limited express train service Akita Rinkai Railway Line, a Japanese freight-only railway line Akita Shinkansen, a mini-shinkansen high-speed rail line Akita Station, a railway station in Akita, Japan Akitashirakami Station, a JR East railway station in Happō, Yamamoto District, Akita Prefecture, Japan Port of Akita, a seaport on the Sea of Japan coast of Akita Prefecture in Akita, Japan Other uses Akita (dog), a large spitz breed of dog originating from the mountainous northern regions of Japan Akita Kantō, a Japanese festival celebrated from 3–7 August in Akita, Japan Our Lady of Akita, Marian apparitions See also Mount Akita-Komagatake, an active stratovolcano
Active Server Pages (ASP) is Microsoft's first server-side scripting language and engine for dynamic web pages. It was first released in December 1996, before being superseded in January 2002 by ASP.NET. History Initially released as an add-on to Internet Information Services (IIS) via the Windows NT 4.0 Option Pack (1996), it is included as a component of Windows Server (since the initial release of Windows 2000 Server). There have been three versions of ASP, each introduced with different versions of IIS: ASP 1.0 was released in December 1996 as part of IIS 3.0 ASP 2.0 was released in September 1997 as part of IIS 4.0 ASP 3.0 was released in November 2000 as part of IIS 5.0 ASP 2.0 provides six built-in objects: Application, ASPError, Request, Response, Server, and Session. Session object, for example, represents a session that maintains the state of variables from page to page. The Active Scripting engine's support of the Component Object Model enables ASP websites to access functionality in compiled libraries such as dynamic-link libraries. ASP 3.0 does not differ greatly from ASP 2.0 but it does offer some additional enhancements such as Server.Transfer method, Server.Execute method, and an enhanced ASPError object. ASP 3.0 also enables buffering by default and optimized the engine for better performance. ASP was supported until 14 January 2020 on Windows 7. The use of ASP pages will be supported on Windows 8 for a minimum of 10 years from the Windows 8 release date. ASP is currently supported in all available versions of IIS. Architecture ASP uses scripting on the server to generate content that is sent to the client's web browser via HTTP response. The ASP interpreter reads and executes all script code between <% and %> tags, the result of which is content generation. These scripts were written using VBScript, JScript, or PerlScript. The @Language directive, the syntax or server configuration can be used to select the language. In the example below, Response.Write Now() is in an HTML page; it would be dynamically replaced by the current time of the server. Web pages with the .asp filename extension use ASP, although some web sites disguise their choice of scripting language for security purposes by using the more common .htm or .html extensions. Pages with the .aspx extension use compiled ASP.NET; however, ASP.NET pages may still include some ASP scripting. The introduction of ASP.NET led to use of the term Classic ASP for the original technology. Sun Java System ASP (formerly ChiliSoft ASP) was a popular and reportedly complete emulator, but it has been discontinued. The Server object The server object allows connections to databases (ADO), filesystem, and use of components installed on the server. <% Dim oAdoCon, oAdoRec, oAdoStm, oCdoCon, oCdoMsg, oSciDic, oSciFsm, oMswAdr Set oAdoCon = Server.CreateObject("ADODB.Connection") Set oAdoRec = Server.CreateObject("ADODB.Recordset") Set oAdoStm = Server.CreateObject("ADODB.Stream") Set oCdoCon = Server.CreateObject("CDO.Configuration") Set oCdoMsg = Server.CreateObject("CDO.Message") Set oSciDic = Server.CreateObject("Scripting.Dictionary") Set oSciFsm = Server.CreateObject("Scripting.FileSystemObject") Set oMswAdr = Server.CreateObject("MSWC.Swingbridge") %> The Application object This object stores global variables, which are variables accessible to all users. <% Application("Ali") = "My ASP Application" Response.Write "Welcome to " & Server.HTMLEncode(Application("Ali")) & "!" %> The Session object Stores variables accessible only to a single visitor, which are local variables. <% If Len(Request.QueryString("name")) > 0 Then Session("name") = Request.QueryString("name") End If Response.Write "Welcome " & Server.HTMLEncode(Session("name")) & "!" %> The session object is file based and multiple concurrent read and/or write requests will be blocked and processed in turn. The Err object Allows the management and fixing of non-fatal errors. <% On Error Resume Next Response.Write 1 / 0 ' Division by zero If Err.Number <> 0 Then Response.Write "Error Code: " & Server.HTMLEncode(Err.Number) & "<br />" Response.Write "Error Source: " & Server.HTMLEncode(Err.Source) & "<br />" Response.Write "Error Description: " & Server.HTMLEncode(Err.Description) & "<br />" Err.Clear End If %> See also ASP.NET Template processor Comparison of web template engines Jakarta Server Pages PHP Common Gateway Interface References External links ASP on MSDN Microsoft Support for ASP on Windows Classic ASP Applications on IIS 7.0 and IIS 7.5 Overview Primitive Classic ASP Framework (XML, JSON, BENCODE) Microsoft server technology
AZ (or similar) may refer to: Companies and organizations Alkmaar Zaanstreek, formerly AZ '67, a Dutch Eredivisie football club AZ (women), the affiliated women's football club (2007–2011) AstraZeneca, a UK-based pharmaceutical company Oxford–AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine, their COVID-19 vaccine (sometimes abbreviated as AZ) ITA Airways, IATA code for the national airline of Italy Ministry of General Affairs (), a Dutch Government ministry Music Authority Zero, an Arizona punk rock band AZ (label), a French record label People Az (people), Turkophone people from present-day Russia AZ (rapper), a rapper from Brooklyn, New York Azie Faison, known as AZ, a former drug dealer from New York Places Arizona, a state in the United States whose postal abbreviation is "AZ" Azerbaijan, a Eurasian country, designated by the 2-letter ISO 3166-1 country code Other uses .az, the country code top level domain for the nation of Azerbaijan Abendzeitung, a newspaper based in Munich, Germany AlphaZero, game-playing artificial intelligence Assignment Zero, a crowdsourced journalism project Azimuth, the horizontal component of a compass direction Azerbaijani language, designated by the ISO 639-1 international-standard language-code "az" Toyota AZ engine family Azimuth, the horizontal component of a compass direction See also A–Z (disambiguation) AZ1 (disambiguation) ZA (disambiguation)
ArgoUML is an UML diagramming application written in Java and released under the open source Eclipse Public License. By virtue of being a Java application, it is available on any platform supported by Java SE. History ArgoUML was originally developed at UC Irvine by Jason E. Robbins, leading to his Ph.D. It was an open source project hosted by Tigris.org and moved in 2019 to GitHub. The ArgoUML project included more than 19,000 registered users and over 150 developers. In 2003, ArgoUML won the Software Development Magazine's annual Readers' Choice Award in the “Design and Analysis Tools” category. ArgoUML development has suffered from lack of manpower. For example, Undo has been a perpetually requested feature since 2003 but has not been implemented yet. Features According to the official feature list, ArgoUML is capable of the following: All 9 UML 1.4 diagrams are supported. Closely follows the UML standard. Platform independent – Java 1.5+ and C++. Click and Go! with Java Web Start (no setup required, starts from your web browser). Standard UML 1.4 Metamodel. XMI support. Export diagrams as GIF, PNG, PS, EPS, PGML and SVG. Available in ten languages: EN, EN-GB, DE, ES, IT, RU, FR, NB, PT, ZH. Advanced diagram editing and zoom. Built-in design critics provide unobtrusive review of design and suggestions for improvements. Extensible modules interface. OCL support. Forward engineering (code generation supports C++ and C#, Java, PHP 4, PHP 5, Ruby and, with less mature modules, Ada, Delphi and SQL). Reverse engineering / JAR/class file import. Weaknesses ArgoUML does not yet completely implement the UML standard. Partial undo feature (working for graphics edits ) Java Web Start launching may no longer work reliably. See Java Web Start. See also List of UML tools MetaCASE tool References External links Java platform software Free UML tools 1999 software Software using the Eclipse license
A file archiver is a computer program that combines a number of files together into one archive file, or a series of archive files, for easier transportation or storage. File archivers may employ lossless data compression in their archive formats to reduce the size of the archive. Basic archivers just take a list of files and concatenate their contents sequentially into archives. The archive files need to store metadata, at least the names and lengths of the original files, if proper reconstruction is possible. More advanced archivers store additional metadata, such as the original timestamps, file attributes or access control lists. The process of making an archive file is called archiving or packing. Reconstructing the original files from the archive is termed unarchiving, unpacking or extracting. History An early archiver was the Multics command archive, descended from the CTSS command of the same name, which was a basic archiver and performed no compression. Multics also had a "tape_archiver" command, abbreviated ta, which was perhaps the forerunner of the Unix command tar. Unix archivers The Unix tools ar, tar, and cpio act as archivers but not compressors. Users of the Unix tools use additional compression tools, such as gzip, bzip2, or xz, to compress the archive file after packing or remove compression before unpacking the archive file. The filename extensions are successively added at each step of this process. For example, archiving a collection of files with tar and then compressing the resulting archive file with gzip results a file with .tar.gz extension. This approach has two goals: It follows the Unix philosophy that each program should accomplish a single task to perfection, as opposed to attempting to accomplish everything with one tool. As compression technology progresses, users may use different compression programs without having to modify or abandon their archiver. The archives use solid compression. When the files are combined, the compressor can exploit redundancy across several archived files and achieve better compression than a compressor that compresses each files individually. This approach, however, has disadvantages too: Extracting or modifying one file is difficult. Extracting one file requires decompressing an entire archive, which can be time- and space-consuming. Modifying one means the file needs to be put back into archive and the archive recompressed again. This operation requires additional time and disk space. The archive becomes damage-prone. If the area holding shared data for several files is damaged, all those files are lost. It is impossible to take advantage of redundancy between files unless the compression window is larger than the size of an individual file. For example, gzip uses DEFLATE, which typically operates with a 32768-byte window, whereas bzip2 uses a Burrows–Wheeler transform roughly 27 times bigger. xz defaults to 8 MiB but supports significantly larger windows. Windows archivers The built-in archiver of Microsoft Windows as well as third-party archiving software, such as WinRAR and 7-zip, often use a graphical user interface. They also offer an optional command-line interface, while Windows itself does not. Windows archivers perform both archiving and compression. Solid compression may or may not be offered, depending on the product: Windows itself does not support it; WinRAR and 7-zip offer it as an option that can be turned on or off. See also Comparison of file archivers Archive format List of archive formats Comparison of archive formats References External links Computer storage systems Computer file systems Computer archives Utility software types
() is a German phrase meaning "Work sets you free" or "Work makes one free". The slogan originates from a 1873 novel by Lorenz Diefenbach. It is known for appearing on the entrance of Auschwitz and other Nazi concentration camps. Origin The expression comes from the title of an 1873 novel by the German philologist Lorenz Diefenbach, , in which gamblers and fraudsters find the path to virtue through labour. The phrase was also used in French () by Auguste Forel, a Swiss entomologist, neuroanatomist and psychiatrist, in his () (1920). In 1922, the of Vienna, an ethnic nationalist "protective" organization of Germans within Austria, printed membership stamps with the phrase . The phrase is also evocative of the medieval German principle of ("urban air makes you free"), according to which serfs were liberated after being a city resident for one year and one day. Use by the Nazis In 1933 the first communist prisoners were being rounded up for an indefinite period without charges. They were held in a number of places in Germany. The slogan was first used over the gate of a "wild camp" in the city of Oranienburg, which was set up in an abandoned brewery in March 1933 (it was later rebuilt in 1936 as Sachsenhausen). The slogan was placed at the entrances to a number of Nazi concentration camps. The slogan's use was implemented by (SS) officer Theodor Eicke at Dachau concentration camp. From Dachau, it was copied by the Nazi officer Rudolf Höss, who had previously worked there. Höss was appointed to create the original camp at Auschwitz, which became known as Auschwitz (or Camp) 1 and whose intended purpose was to incarcerate Polish political detainees. The Auschwitz I sign was made by prisoner-laborers including master blacksmith Jan Liwacz, and features an upside-down B, which has been interpreted as an act of defiance by the prisoners who made it. In The Kingdom of Auschwitz, Otto Friedrich wrote about Rudolf Höss, regarding his decision to display the motto so prominently at Auschwitz: In 1938 the Austrian political cabaret writer Jura Soyfer and the composer Herbert Zipper, while prisoners at Dachau, wrote the or "The Dachau Song". They had spent weeks marching in and out of the camp's gate to daily forced labour, and considered the motto over the gate an insult. The song repeats the phrase cynically as a "lesson" taught by Dachau. An example of ridiculing the falsity of the slogan was a popular saying used among Auschwitz prisoners: It can also be seen at the Gross-Rosen, and Theresienstadt camps, as well as at Fort Breendonk in Belgium. At the Monowitz camp (also known as Auschwitz III), the slogan was reportedly placed over the entrance gates. However, Primo Levi describes seeing the words illuminated over a doorway (as distinct from a gate). The slogan appeared at the Flossenbürg camp on the left gate post at the camp entry. The original gate posts survive in another part of the camp, but the sign no longer exists. The signs are prominently displayed, and were seen by all prisoners and staff— all of whom knew, suspected, or quickly learned that prisoners confined there would likely only be freed by death. The signs' psychological impact was tremendous. Thefts of signs The sign over the Auschwitz I gate was stolen in December 2009 and later recovered by authorities in three pieces. Anders Högström, a Swedish neo-Nazi, and two Polish neo-Nazi men were jailed as a result. The original sign is now in storage at the Auschwitz-Birkenau State Museum and a replica was put over the gate in its place. On 2 November 2014, the sign over the Dachau gate was stolen. It was found on 28 November 2016 under a tarp at a parking lot in Ytre Arna, a settlement north of Bergen, Norway's second-largest city. See also Extermination through labour (idiomatically, "everyone gets what he deserves"), a motto used at the Buchenwald concentration camp. References External links German words and phrases Signage Terminology of Nazi concentration camps Unfree labor during World War II Holocaust terminology Euphemisms Quotations from literature 1870s neologisms
Axayacatl (; ; ; meaning "face of water"; –1481) was the sixth of the of Tenochtitlan and Emperor of the Aztec Triple Alliance. Biography Early life and background Axayacatl was a son of the princess Atotoztli II and her cousin, prince Tezozomoc. He was a grandson of the Emperors Moctezuma I and Itzcoatl. He was a descendant of the king Cuauhtototzin. He was a successor of Moctezuma and his brothers were Emperors Tizoc and Ahuitzotl and his sister was the Queen Chalchiuhnenetzin. He was an uncle of the Emperor Cuauhtémoc and father of Emperors Moctezuma II and Cuitláhuac. Rise to power During his youth, his military prowess gained him the favor influential figures such as Nezahualcoyotl and Tlacaelel I, and thus, upon the death of Moctezuma I in 1469, he was chosen to ascend to the throne, much to the displeasure of his two older brothers, Tizoc and Ahuitzotl. It is also important that the Great Sun Stone, also known as the Aztec Calendar, was carved under his leadership. An earthquake in Tenochtitlán occurred and destroyed many homes. Military actions and death Using as a pretext the insulting behavior of a few Tlatelolcan citizens, Axayacatl invaded his neighbor, killed its ruler, Moquihuix, and replaced him with a military governor. The Tlatelolcans lost any voice they had in forming Aztec policy. Axayacatl largely dedicated his twelve-year reign to consolidating his militaristic repute: he led successful campaigns against the neighboring of Tlatelolco in 1473 (see Battle of Tlatelolco) and the Matlatzinca of the Toluca Valley in 1474, but was finally defeated by the Tarascans of Michoacán in 1476. Despite some subsequent minor triumphs, Axayacatl's defeat at the hands of the Tarascans irreversibly marred his image, as it constituted the only major defeat suffered by the Aztecs up to that moment. In spite of his young age, he fell gravely ill in 1480, passing away a mere year later, in 1481, whereupon he was succeeded by his brother Tizoc. Axayacatl the poet Axayacatl wrote two poems. The first, Ycuic Axayayatzin (English: "Song of Axayacatl") is a defense against his brothers and critics; the second, Huehue cuicatl (English: "Song of the Ancients") is a lament written after his defeat in Michoacan. In popular culture The Obsidian and Blood series by Aliette de Bodard are set in the last year of the reign of Axayacatl and the first years of the reign of Tizoc, with their youngest brother Ahuitzotl appearing as a primary character. Notes See also List of Tenochtitlan rulers References External links Tenochca tlatoque Nahuatl-language poets 15th-century monarchs in North America 15th-century indigenous people of the Americas Year of birth uncertain 1440s births 1481 deaths 15th century in the Aztec civilization Moctezuma family
Ahuitzotl (, ) was the eighth Aztec ruler, the Huey Tlatoani of the city of Tenochtitlan, son of princess Atotoztli II. His name literally means "Water Thorny" and was also applied to the otter. It is also theorized that more likely, the animal called ahuitzotl is actually the water opossum, the hand symbolizing its prehensile tail, which otters notably lack. Either Ahuitzotl or his predecessor Tizoc was the first tlatoani of Tenochtitlan to assume the title Huey Tlatoani ("supreme tlatoani") to make their superiority over the other cities in the Triple Alliance (Aztec Empire) clear. Ahuitzotl was responsible for much of the expansion of the Mexica domain, and consolidated the empire's power after emulating his predecessor. He took power as Emperor in the year 7 Rabbit (1486), after the death of his predecessor and brother, Tizoc. He had two sons, the kings Chimalpilli II and Cuauhtémoc, and one daughter. Biography Perhaps the greatest known military leader of pre-Columbian Mesoamerica, Ahuizotl began his reign by suppressing a Huastec rebellion, and then swiftly more than doubled the size of lands under Aztec dominance. He conquered the Mixtec, Zapotec, and other peoples from Pacific Coast of Mexico down to the western part of Guatemala. Ahuizotl also supervised a major rebuilding of Tenochtitlan on a grander scale including the expansion of the Great Pyramid or Templo Mayor in the year 8 Reed (1487). He presided over the introduction of the great-tailed grackle into the Valley of Mexico, the earliest documented case of human-mediated bird introduction in the Western Hemisphere. Ahuizotl died in the year 10 Rabbit (1502) and was succeeded by his nephew, Moctezuma II. Ahuizotl took his name from the animal ahuizotl, which the Aztecs considered to be a legendary creature in its own right rather than a mere mythical representation of the king. In January 2021 the INAH proposed moving the statues of Ahuizotl and Itzcóatl, known as the Indios Verdes, from the Parque del Mestizaje in Gustavo A. Madero, Mexico City to the Paseo de la Reforma. “The transfer means a reading of the urban space, recovering the historical discourse that gave rise to the formation of a set of monuments and roundabouts on Paseo de la Reforma, conceived at the end of the 19th century, with the idea of honoring the Reformation, a great transformation that it meant for Mexico, but to recover a historical reading that began precisely by underlining the Mexican splendor and the importance of the pre-Hispanic or Mesoamerican antecedents of our country”, Diego Prieto, director of INAH said. In popular culture Under the name Teomitl, Ahuitzotl is a primary character in the Obsidian and Blood series by Aliette de Bodard, which are set in the last year of the reign of Axayacatl and the first years of the reign of Tizoc. In the historical fiction novel, Aztec by Gary Jennings, Ahuitzotl is a prominent character. Set in the time just before the arrival of the Spanish Conquistadors, it accounts his construction of the many expansions of Tenochtitlan, and wars of conquest, trade, and proclivities. References Bibliography Townsend, Richard F. (2000) The Aztecs. revised ed. Thames and Hudson, New York. Hassig, Ross (1988) Aztec Warfare: Imperial Expansion and Political Control. University of Oklahoma Press, Norman. Aztec nobility Tenochca tlatoque Year of birth unknown 15th-century births 1502 deaths 15th-century monarchs in North America 15th-century indigenous people of the Americas 15th century in the Aztec civilization 1500s in the Aztec civilization
Belgian hip hop music has a few rappers stemming from Africa and Italy. Belgium, like France, controlled African countries like the Democratic Republic of the Congo (formerly Zaire), Rwanda, and Burundi until the early 1960s. Like in France, immigrants from these countries started to study and live in Belgium. The Belgian hip hop scene started in the late 1980s with a U.S.-based techno/hip hop group called Technotronic. In the group was an emcee named Ya Kid K from the Democratic Republic of the Congo who later led the group into international fame with hits like "Pump up the Jam" and "Shake That Body". In 1990, she also joined the group Hi-Tek 3 who were heard on Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: The Original Motion Picture Soundtrack. However, the first major pop rapper from Belgium was Benny B, who had a very mainstream and commercial sound. According to the European Music Office's report on Music in Europe, this was the first of many pop acts that helped inspire a backlash and the creation of an underground hip hop scene. Also in the late 1980s in the Walloon south of the country, French speaking/rapping Starflam was the biggest name in hip hop. In the Flemish north Dutch speaking/rapping groups like 't Hof van Commerce, Krapoel In Axe, St Andries MC's, and ABN were popular, rapping in their regional dialects. Today, the Belgian hip hop scene is growing. Rappers like Coely, Roméo Elvis and Damso are achieving commercial success in their country and abroad. Other contemporary rappers/formations are Stikstof, Woodie Smalls, L'Or Du Commun and Isha. To find out more about today's Belgian hip hop scene, check out The Belgian Hip Hop Channel. References
Ans or ANS or variation, may refer to: Places Ans, Belgium, a municipality in Belgium Ans, Denmark, a village in Denmark Angus, Scotland, UK; a council area by its Chapman code Ainsdale railway station, England, UK (by station code ANS) Andahuaylas Airport, Peru (by IATA airport code ANS) People Ans (given name), a Dutch feminine given name Anna Nicole Smith, American model and actress Organizations Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States Astronomical Netherlands Satellite, a Dutch satellite American Name Society American Nuclear Society American Numismatic Society, formerly the American Numismatic and Archaeological Society ANS Group of Companies, a news organization in Azerbaijan , a Cambodian resistance group; see Coalition Government of Democratic Kampuchea Audubon Naturalist Society, an American environmental organization Chemistry and biology Adrenergic nervous system, adrenaline and noradrenaline neurotransmitters distribution in human body 8-Anilino-1-naphthalenesulfonic acid, a fluorescent chemical compound used as a molecular probe Anthocyanidin synthase, an enzyme in the leucocyanidin biosynthesis pathway Approximate number system, a hypothesized physiological basis for the sense of number Autonomic nervous system, part of the peripheral nervous system in the body Technology , an unofficial file extension for ANSI art Advanced Network and Services, a non-profit network service provider in the 1990s American National Standards, defined by the American National Standards Institute ans, a variable in calculators referring to the most recent answer ANS carriage control characters (or ASA control characters), for computer line printers Asymmetric numeral systems, coding in data compression Authoritative name server, a DNS server Artificial neural system, or Artificial neural network Air Navigation Services, as delivered by an Air Navigation Service Provider (ANSP) Music ANS (album), a box set from the British band Coil ANS synthesizer, a Russian photoelectric musical instrument Other uses Al Ansar FC, a Lebanese association football club Amman National School, in Amman, Jordan Ansvarlig selskap, a Norwegian personal responsibility company model Algemeen Nijmeegs Studentenblad, a Dutch student magazine See also AN (disambiguation) Answer (disambiguation), for which "Ans." may be an abbreviation
The Algemeen Nijmeegs Studentenblad is an independent student magazine for the Radboud University Nijmegen. Founded in 1985 by members of the local student union AKKU, it is now published by the Stichting Multimedia. External links http://www.ans-online.nl/ (Flash required) 1985 establishments in the Netherlands Dutch-language magazines Independent magazines Magazines established in 1985 Magazines published in the Netherlands Radboud University Nijmegen Student magazines Student societies in the Netherlands
Interior Alaska is the central region of Alaska's territory, roughly bounded by the Alaska Range to the south and the Brooks Range to the north. It is largely wilderness. Mountains include Denali in the Alaska Range, the Wrangell Mountains, and the Ray Mountains. The native people of the interior are Alaskan Athabaskans. The largest city in the interior is Fairbanks, Alaska's second-largest city, in the Tanana Valley. Other towns include North Pole, just southeast of Fairbanks, Eagle, Tok, Glennallen, Delta Junction, Nenana, Anderson, Healy and Cantwell. The interior region has an estimated population of 113,154. Climate Interior Alaska experiences extreme seasonal temperature variability. Winter temperatures in Fairbanks average −12 °F (−24 °C) and summer temperatures average +62 °F (+17 °C). Temperatures there have been recorded as low as −65 °F (−54 °C) in mid-winter, and as high as +99 °F (+37 °C) in summer. Both the highest and lowest temperature records for the state were set in the Interior, with 100 °F (38 °C) in Fort Yukon and −80 °F (−62 °C) in Prospect Creek. Temperatures within a given winter are highly variable as well; extended cold snaps of forty below zero can be followed by unseasonable warmth with temperatures above freezing due to chinook wind effects. Summers can be warm and dry for extended periods creating ideal fire weather conditions. Weak thunderstorms produce mostly dry lightning, sparking wildfires that are mostly left to burn themselves out as they are often far from populated areas. The 2004 season set a new record with over burned. The average annual precipitation in Fairbanks is 11.3 inches (287 mm). Most of this comes in the form of snow during the winter. Most storms in the interior of Alaska originate in the Gulf of Alaska, south of the state, though these storms often have limited precipitation due to a rain shadow effect caused by the Alaska Range. On clear winter nights, the aurora borealis can often be seen in the sky. Like all subarctic regions, the months from May to July in the summer have no night, only a twilight during the night hours. The months of November to January have little daylight. Fairbanks receives an average 21 hours of daylight between May 10 and August 2 each summer, and an average of less than four hours of daylight between November 18 and January 24 each winter. The interior of Alaska is largely underlined by discontinuous permafrost, which grades to continuous permafrost as the Arctic Circle is approached. Alaska Natives While the vast majority of indigenous Native people of Interior Alaska are Athabaskan Indians, large Yup'ik and Iñupiaq populations reside in Fairbanks. The federally recognized tribes of Interior Alaska: Council of Athabascan Tribal Governments (CATG): Beaver Village, Birch Creek Tribe, Circle Native Community, Native Village of Fort Yukon, Native Village of Venetie Tribal Government (also known as Arctic Village and Village of Venetie). Tanana Chiefs Conference (TCC): Allakaket Village, Alatna Village, Village of Anaktuvuk Pass, Chalkyitsik Village, Village of Dot Lake, Native Village of Eagle, Evansville Village (also known as Bettles Field), Galena Village (also known as Louden Village), Healy Lake Village, Hughes Village, Huslia Village, Village of Kaltag, Koyukuk Native Village, Manley Hot Springs Village, Native Village of Minto, Nenana Native Association, Nikolai Village (Edzeno’ Native Council), Northway Village, Nulato Village, Rampart Village, Native Village of Ruby, Native Village of Stevens, Native Village of Tanacross, Telida Village, Native Village of Tetlin. Tanana Tribal Council: Native Village of Tanana. Other places in the Interior Service Area not Federally Recognized as Tribes: Alcan, Anderson, Big Delta, Canyon Village, Central, Chatanika, Chicken, Clear, Delta Junction, Fairbanks, Fox, Indian River, Kokrines, Lake Minchumina, Medfra, North Pole, Salcha, Tok, Toklat, Tolovana, Wiseman, Wood River. Notes References Regions of Alaska Tourism regions of Alaska Alaskan Athabaskans
In Alaska, the Bush typically refers to any region of the state that is not connected to the North American road network or does not have ready access to the state's ferry system. A large proportion of Alaska Native populations live in the Bush, often depending on subsistence hunting and fishing. Geographically, the Bush comprises the Alaska North Slope; Northwest Arctic; West, including the Baldwin and Seward Peninsulas; the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta; Southwest Alaska; Bristol Bay; Alaska Peninsula; and remote areas of the Alaska Panhandle and Interior. Some of the hub communities in the bush, which typically can be reached by larger, commercial airplanes, include Bethel, Dillingham, King Salmon, Nome, Utqiagvik, Kodiak Island, Kotzebue, and Unalaska-Dutch Harbor. Most parts of Alaska that are off the road or ferry system can be reached by small bush airplanes. Travel between smaller communities or to and from hub communities is typically accomplished by snowmobiles, boats, or ATVs. References Regions of Alaska Rural geography Decolonization
A person's romantic orientation, also called affectional orientation, is the classification of the sex or gender with which a person experiences romantic attraction towards or is likely to have a romantic relationship with. The term is used alongside the term "sexual orientation", as well as being used alternatively to it, based upon the perspective that sexual attraction is only a single component of a larger concept. For example, although a pansexual person may feel sexually attracted to people regardless of gender, the person may experience romantic attraction and intimacy with women only. For asexual people, romantic orientation is often considered a more useful measure of attraction than sexual orientation. The relationship between sexual attraction and romantic attraction is still under debate. Sexual and romantic attractions are often studied in conjunction. Even though studies of sexual and romantic spectrums are shedding light onto this under-researched subject, much is still not fully understood. Romantic identities People may or may not engage in purely emotional romantic relationships. The main identities relating to this are: Aromantic, meaning someone who experiences little to no romantic attraction. , or experiencing romantic attraction rarely, only under certain circumstances, or only weakly : Romantic attraction towards any of the above but only after forming a deep emotional bond with the person(s) (demiromanticism). : Romantic attraction towards person(s) of the opposite gender (heteroromanticism). : Romantic attraction towards person(s) of the same gender (homoromanticism). : Romantic attraction towards two or more genders, or person(s) of the same and other genders (biromanticism). Sometimes used the same way as panromantic. : Romantic attraction towards person(s) of any, every, and all genders (panromanticism). : Romantic attraction towards person(s) of various, but not all, genders (polyromanticism). Relationship with sexual orientation and asexuality The implications of the distinction between romantic and sexual orientations have not been fully recognized, nor have they been studied extensively. It is common for sources to describe sexual orientation as including components of both sexual and romantic (or romantic equivalent) attractions. Publications investigating the relationship between sexual orientation and romantic orientation are limited. Challenges in collecting information result from survey participants having difficulty identifying or distinguishing between sexual and romantic attractions. Asexual individuals experience little to no sexual attraction (see gray asexuality); however, they may still experience romantic attraction. Lisa M. Diamond states that a person's romantic orientation can differ from whom the person is sexually attracted to. While there is limited research on the discordance between sexual attraction and romantic attraction in individuals, the possibility of fluidity and diversity in attractions have been progressively recognized. Researchers Bulmer and Izuma found that people who identify as aromantic often have more negative attitudes in relation to romance. While roughly 1% of the population identifies as asexual, 74% of those people reported having some form of romantic attraction. A concept commonly used by people that experience discordant romantic and sexual attraction is the split attraction model, which tries to explain that romantic and sexual attractions are not exclusively tied together and is often used by people of the asexual and aromantic community to explain their differing romantic versus sexual orientations. Aromanticism Aromanticism is a romantic orientation characterized by experiencing little to no romantic attraction. The term "aromantic", colloquially shortened to "aro", refers to a person who identifies their romantic orientation as aromanticism. As a , it is included in the initialism LGBTQIA+ as the A, standing for aromanticism, along with asexual and agender. See also Bromance Cross-sex friendship Emotional affair Heterosociality Homosociality Queerplatonic relationship Romantic friendship Womance References Further reading Sexual orientation Aromanticism Asexuality LGBT
Anoa, also known as dwarf buffalo and sapiutan, are two species of the genus Bubalus, placed within the subgenus Anoa and endemic to the island of Sulawesi in Indonesia: the mountain anoa (Bubalus quarlesi) and the lowland anoa (Bubalus depressicornis). Both live in undisturbed rainforest and are similar in appearance to miniature water buffaloes, weighing . Both species of anoa have been classified as endangered since the 1960s and the populations continue to decrease. Fewer than 5,000 animals of each species likely remain. Reasons for their decline include hunting for hides, horns and meat by the local peoples and loss of habitat due to the advancement of settlement. Currently, hunting is the more serious factor in most areas. Anoa are most closely allied to the larger Asian buffaloes, showing the same reversal of the direction of the hair on their backs. The horns are peculiar for their upright direction and comparative straightness, although they have the same triangular section as in other buffaloes. White spots are sometimes present below the eyes and there may be white markings on the legs and back; the absence or presence of these white markings may be indicative of distinct races. The horns of the cows are very small. The nearest allies of the anoa appear to be certain extinct Asian buffaloes, the remains of which have been found in the Siwalik Hills of northern India. Both are found on the island of Sulawesi and the nearby island of Buton in Indonesia. They apparently live singly or in pairs, rather than in herds like most cattle, except when the cows are about to give birth. Little is known about their life history as well. However, in captive individuals they have a life expectancy of 20–30 years. The anoa take two to three years before they reach sexual maturity and have one calf a year and have very rarely been seen to have more. Skulls of anoa cannot be accurately identified as to species, and there is likely hybridizing and interbreeding between the two in the zoo population. It is questioned as to whether the two species were actually different due to them occurring together in many different areas, as well as some interbreeding. A study of the mtDNA of ten specimens from different localities found a high mitochondrial genetic diversity between individuals identified as one or the other species, indicating support for recognition as two species. Species The lowland anoa (Bubalus depressicornis) is a small bovid, standing barely over at the shoulder. It is usually solitary, living in lowland forests, browsing on plants and understory. According to the Groves (1969) the lowland anoa can be told apart from the other species by being larger, having a triangular horn cross-section, sparse as opposed to thick and woolly hair, and always having white marking on the face and legs. The mountain anoa (Bubalus quarlesi) is also known as Quarle's anoa and anoa pegunungan. Standing at at the shoulder, it is even smaller than the lowland anoa and the smallest of all living wild cattle. They also have longer, woolier hair that moults every year, showing faint spots on the head, neck and limbs. According to the Groves (1969) the mountain anoa can be told apart from the other species by being smaller, having a round horn cross-section, thick and woolly hair, and sometimes having white marking on the face and legs. Distribution Both the lowland anoa (Bubalus depressicornis) and the mountain anoa (Bubalus quarlesi) are endemic to the islands of Sulawesi in Indonesia. Both species appear to occur in exactly the same areas. Sulawesi is a unique area due to the fact that roughly 61% of the species found there are endemic species, including both anoa species. Habitat Traditionally, a key difference between the two species is the altitude at which they occur. The mountain anoa would be found at higher elevations than its lowland counterpart and is found in the forests. The lowland anoa was said to spend its time in the lower elevation areas and is also found in forests. Since 2005, however, these differences do not seem to be accurate, both species occur in the same areas in the same habitats. Morphology The anoa have many physical characteristics of bovine relatives and are considered to be most closely related to the water buffalo, which was confirmed through DNA analysis. The physical characteristics of the two species are similar. The anoa is the smallest of the wild cattle species. When anoa are born, they have a set of thick, woolly fur that comes in many color variations ranging from yellow to brown. In adults, the fur is typically brown or black and males tend to have darker variations. Hair thickness varies slightly between the two species based on elevation and distribution. In both species of anoa, horns are present on both males and females and are typically straight protuberances. Another defining characteristic of the anoa is an extremely thick hide underneath the thick fur. Conservation Both anoa species are endemic to the island of Sulawesi and are currently experiencing large declines in their populations. Knowledge of their decline has only recently been documented, however, and the villages and villagers lack the knowledge of how to help maintain or increase populations. The leading cause of their population decline is hunting by local villagers for meat, with habitat loss also being significant. One benefit of the lack of knowledge about the legal status of what they are doing is that villagers are open to communication with researchers on their harvests and hunting practices; where awareness of conservation issues has penetrated, villagers will lie about their activities. Logging is a large issue due to the fact that both species prefer core forested habitat that is far away from humans and the influences that come with them. By logging, humans create much more fragmented habitat and, therefore, a decrease in the area where the anoa can breed and live. This habitat fragmentation also alters the natural mixing of populations of the anoa. This may lead to a loss in genetic diversity between the two species and, over time, could also lead to their decline. References External links DIET COMPOSITION OF ANOA (Bubalus sp.) STUDIED USING DIRECT OBSERVATION AND DUNG ANALYSIS METHOD IN THEIR HABITAT from https://ejournal.undip.ac.id/index.php/jitaa/article/view/7608/6259 Pujaningsih, R.i., et al. “DIET COMPOSITION OF ANOA (Bubalus sp.) STUDIED USING DIRECT OBSERVATION AND DUNG ANALYSIS METHOD IN THEIR HABITAT.” Journal of the Indonesian Tropical Animal Agriculture, vol. 34, no. 3, 2009, doi:10.14710/jitaa.34.3.223-228. Lowland Anoa Bubalus depressicornis Smith from wildcattleconservation.org Bovines Mammals of Sulawesi Endemic fauna of Indonesia
Agner Krarup Erlang (1 January 1878 – 3 February 1929) was a Danish mathematician, statistician and engineer, who invented the fields of traffic engineering and queueing theory. By the time of his relatively early death at the age of 51, Erlang had created the field of telephone networks analysis. His early work in scrutinizing the use of local, exchange and trunk telephone line usage in a small community to understand the theoretical requirements of an efficient network led to the creation of the Erlang formula, which became a foundational element of modern telecommunication network studies. Life Erlang was born at Lønborg, near Tarm, in Jutland. He was the son of a schoolmaster, and a descendant of Thomas Fincke on his mother's side. At age 14, he passed the Preliminary Examination of the University of Copenhagen with distinction, after receiving dispensation to take it because he was younger than the usual minimum age. For the next two years he taught alongside his father. A distant relative provided free board and lodging, and Erlang prepared for and took the University of Copenhagen entrance examination in 1896, and passed with distinction. He won a scholarship to the University and majored in mathematics, and also studied astronomy, physics and chemistry. He graduated in 1901 with an MA and over the next 7 years taught at several schools. He maintained his interest in mathematics, and received an award for a paper that he submitted to the University of Copenhagen. He was a member of the Danish Mathematicians' Association (DMF) and through this met amateur mathematician Johan Jensen, the Chief Engineer of the Copenhagen Telephone Company (KTAS in Danish), an offshoot of the International Bell Telephone Company. Erlang worked for the Copenhagen Telephone Company from 1908 for almost 20 years, until his death in Copenhagen after an abdominal operation. He was an associate of the British Institution of Electrical Engineers. Contributions While working for the CTC, Erlang was presented with the classic problem of determining how many circuits were needed to provide an acceptable telephone service. His thinking went further by finding how many telephone operators were needed to handle a given volume of calls. Most telephone exchanges then used human operators and cord boards to switch telephone calls by means of jack plugs. Out of necessity, Erlang was a hands-on researcher. He would conduct measurements and was prepared to climb into street manholes to do so. He was also an expert in the history and calculation of the numerical tables of mathematical functions, particularly logarithms. He devised new calculation methods for certain forms of tables. He developed his theory of telephone traffic over several years. His significant publications include: 1909 – "The Theory of Probabilities and Telephone Conversations", which proves that the Poisson distribution applies to random telephone traffic. 1917 – "Solution of some Problems in the Theory of Probabilities of Significance in Automatic Telephone Exchanges", which contains his classic formulae for call loss and waiting time. 1920 - "Telephone waiting times", which is Erlang's principal work on waiting times, assuming constant holding times. These and other notable papers were translated into English, French and German. His papers were prepared in a very brief style and can be difficult to understand without a background in the field. One Bell Telephone Laboratories researcher is said to have learned Danish to study them. The British Post Office accepted his formula as the basis for calculating circuit facilities. In 1946, the CCITT named the international unit of telephone traffic the "erlang". A statistical distribution and programming language listed below have also been named in his honour. Erlang also made an important contribution to physiologic modeling with the Krogh-Erlang capillary cylinder model describing oxygen supply to living tissue. See also Erlang – a unit of communication activity Erlang distribution – a statistical probability distribution Erlang programming language – developed by Ericsson for large industrial real-time systems Queueing theory Teletraffic engineering References 20th-century Danish mathematicians 20th-century Danish engineers Electrical engineers Queueing theorists Danish statisticians Danish business theorists 1878 births 1929 deaths People from Ringkøbing-Skjern Municipality Danish civil engineers University of Copenhagen alumni
In chemistry, an alkali (; from ) is a basic, ionic salt of an alkali metal or an alkaline earth metal. An alkali can also be defined as a base that dissolves in water. A solution of a soluble base has a pH greater than 7.0. The adjective alkaline, and less often, alkalescent, is commonly used in English as a synonym for basic, especially for bases soluble in water. This broad use of the term is likely to have come about because alkalis were the first bases known to obey the Arrhenius definition of a base, and they are still among the most common bases. Etymology The word "alkali" is derived from Arabic al qalīy (or alkali), meaning the calcined ashes (see calcination), referring to the original source of alkaline substances. A water-extract of burned plant ashes, called potash and composed mostly of potassium carbonate, was mildly basic. After heating this substance with calcium hydroxide (slaked lime), a far more strongly basic substance known as caustic potash (potassium hydroxide) was produced. Caustic potash was traditionally used in conjunction with animal fats to produce soft soaps, one of the caustic processes that rendered soaps from fats in the process of saponification, one known since antiquity. Plant potash lent the name to the element potassium, which was first derived from caustic potash, and also gave potassium its chemical symbol K (from the German name Kalium), which ultimately derived from alkali. Common properties of alkalis and bases Alkalis are all Arrhenius bases, ones which form hydroxide ions (OH−) when dissolved in water. Common properties of alkaline aqueous solutions include: Moderately concentrated solutions (over 10−3 M) have a pH of 10 or greater. This means that they will turn phenolphthalein from colorless to pink. Concentrated solutions are caustic (causing chemical burns). Alkaline solutions are slippery or soapy to the touch, due to the saponification of the fatty substances on the surface of the skin. Alkalis are normally water-soluble, although some like barium carbonate are only soluble when reacting with an acidic aqueous solution. Difference between alkali and base The terms "base" and "alkali" are often used interchangeably, particularly outside the context of chemistry and chemical engineering. There are various, more specific definitions for the concept of an alkali. Alkalis are usually defined as a subset of the bases. One of two subsets is commonly chosen. A basic salt of an alkali metal or alkaline earth metal (this includes Mg(OH)2 (magnesium hydroxide) but excludes NH3 (ammonia)). Any base that is soluble in water and forms hydroxide ions or the solution of a base in water. (This includes both Mg(OH)2 and NH3, which forms NH4OH.) The second subset of bases is also called an "Arrhenius base". Alkali salts Alkali salts are soluble hydroxides of alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, of which common examples are: Sodium hydroxide (NaOH) – often called "caustic soda" Potassium hydroxide (KOH) – commonly called "caustic potash" Lye – generic term for either of two previous salts or their mixture Calcium hydroxide (Ca(OH)2) – saturated solution known as "limewater" Magnesium hydroxide (Mg(OH)2) – an atypical alkali since it has low solubility in water (although the dissolved portion is considered a strong base due to complete dissociation of its ions) Alkaline soil Soils with pH values that are higher than 7.3 are usually defined as being alkaline. These soils can occur naturally, due to the presence of alkali salts. Although many plants do prefer slightly basic soil (including vegetables like cabbage and fodder like buffalo grass), most plants prefer a mildly acidic soil (with pHs between 6.0 and 6.8), and alkaline soils can cause problems. Alkali lakes In alkali lakes (also called soda lakes), evaporation concentrates the naturally occurring carbonate salts, giving rise to an alkalic and often saline lake. Examples of alkali lakes: Alkali Lake, Lake County, Oregon Baldwin Lake, San Bernardino County, California Bear Lake on the Utah–Idaho border Lake Magadi in Kenya Lake Turkana in Kenya Mono Lake, near Owens Valley in California Redberry Lake, Saskatchewan Summer Lake, Lake County, Oregon Tramping Lake, Saskatchewan See also Alkali metals Alkaline earth metals Base (chemistry) References Inorganic chemistry
Ain't I a Woman? Black Women and Feminism is a 1981 book by bell hooks titled after Sojourner Truth's "Ain't I a Woman?" speech. hooks examines the effect of racism and sexism on Black women, the civil rights movement, and feminist movements from suffrage to the 1970s. She argues that the convergence of sexism and racism during slavery contributed to Black women having the lowest status and worst conditions of any group in American society. White female abolitionists and suffragists were often more comfortable with Black male abolitionists such as Frederick Douglass, while southern segregationalists and stereotypes of Black female promiscuity and immorality caused protests whenever Black women spoke. hooks points out that these white female reformers were more concerned with white morality than the conditions these morals caused Black Americans. Further, she argues that the stereotypes that were set during slavery still affect Black women today. She argued that slavery allowed white society to stereotype white women as the pure goddess virgin and move Black women to the seductive whore stereotype formerly placed on all women, thus justifying the devaluation of Black femininity and rape of Black women. The work which Black women have been forced to perform, either in slavery or in a discriminatory workplace, that would be non-gender conforming for white women has been used against Black women as a proof of their emasculating behavior. hooks argues that Black nationalism was largely a patriarchal and misogynist movement, seeking to overcome racial divisions by strengthening sexist ones, and that it readily latched onto the idea of the emasculating Black matriarch proposed by Daniel Patrick Moynihan, whose theories bell hooks often criticizes. Meanwhile, she says, the "feminist movement", a largely white middle and upper class affair, did not articulate the needs of poor and non-white women, thus reinforcing sexism, racism, and classism. She suggests this explains the low numbers of Black women who participated in the feminist movement in the 1970s, pointing to Louis Harris' Virginia Slims poll done in 1972 for Philip Morris that she says showed 62 percent of Black women supported "efforts to change women's status" and 67 percent "sympathized with the women's rights movement", compared with 45 and 35 percent of white women (also Steinem, 1972). Reception Since its publication, Ain't I a Woman has been critically acclaimed as groundbreaking in the study of feminist theory for discussing the correlation between the history of oppression Black women have faced in the United States and its lingering effects in modern American society. Ain't I a Woman is praised for tackling the intersection of race and gender that marginalizes Black women. hooks' writing has also opened the door for other Black women to write and theorize about similar topics. The book is commonly used in gender studies, Black studies, and philosophy courses. The work has led to some criticism of her being "ahistorical, unscholarly (there were many complaints about the absence of footnotes), and homophobic". She does not provide a bibliography for any of her work, making it difficult to find the editors and publication information for the pieces listed under the "notes" section of her work. In "Theory as Liberatory Practice," hooks explains that her lack of conventional academic format was "motivated by the desire to be inclusive, to reach as many readers as possible in as many different locations as possible". In a book review of hooks' Remembered Rapture: The Writer at Work, Nicole Abraham criticizes hooks' unconventional format rationalization. Abraham suggests that, if her rationalization for not providing footnotes and bibliographic information in her writing is that it will help her reach a broader, presumably less academic audience, hooks either assumes that the average person is uninterested in pursuing her sources and ideas or implies that her readers are too lazy or unsophisticated for proper endnotes. See also Black feminism References 1981 non-fiction books Black feminist books Books by bell hooks English-language books Non-fiction books about racism Sojourner Truth
AMOS BASIC is a dialect of the BASIC programming language for the Amiga computer. Following on from the successful STOS BASIC for the Atari ST, AMOS BASIC was written for the Amiga by François Lionet with Constantin Sotiropoulos and published by Europress Software in 1990. History AMOS competed on the Amiga platform with Acid Software's Blitz BASIC. Both BASICs differed from other dialects on different platforms, in that they allowed the easy creation of fairly demanding multimedia software, with full structured code and many high-level functions to load images, animations, sounds and display them in various ways. The original AMOS was a BASIC interpreter which, whilst working fine, suffered the same disadvantages of any language being run interpretively. By all accounts, AMOS was extremely fast among interpreted languages, being speedy enough that an extension called AMOS 3D could produce playable 3D games even on plain 7 MHz 68000 Amigas. Later, an AMOS compiler was developed that further increased speed. AMOS could also run MC68000 machine code, loaded into a program's memory banks. To simplify animation of sprites, AMOS included the AMOS Animation Language (AMAL), a compiled sprite scripting language which runs independently of the main AMOS BASIC program. It was also possible to control screen and "rainbow" effects using AMAL scripts. AMAL scripts in effect created CopperLists, small routines executed by the Amiga's Agnus chip. After the original version of AMOS, Europress released a compiler (AMOS Compiler), and two other versions of the language: Easy AMOS, a simpler version for beginners, and AMOS Professional, a more advanced version with added features, such as a better integrated development environment, ARexx support, a new user interface API and new flow control constructs. Neither of these new versions was significantly more popular than the original AMOS. AMOS was used mostly to make multimedia software, video games (platformers and graphical adventures) and educational software. The language was mildly successful within the Amiga community. Its ease of use made it especially attractive to beginners. Perhaps AMOS BASIC's biggest disadvantage, stemming from its Atari ST lineage, was its incompatibility with the Amiga's operating system functions and interfaces. Instead, AMOS BASIC controlled the computer directly, which caused programs written in it to have a non-standard user interface, and also caused compatibility problems with newer versions of hardware. Today, the language has declined in popularity along with the Amiga computer for which it was written. Despite this, a small community of enthusiasts are still using it. The source code to AMOS was released around 2001 under a BSD style license by Clickteam, a company that includes the original programmer. Software Software written using AMOS BASIC includes: Miggybyte Scorched Tanks Games by Vulcan Software, amongst which was the Valhalla trilogy Amiga version of Ultimate Domain (called Genesia) by Microïds Flight of the Amazon Queen, by Interactive Binary Illusions Extreme Violence, included on an Amiga Power cover disk Jetstrike, a commercial game by Rasputin Software Black Dawn, a 1993 game for the Amiga personal computer References External links Source code for AMOS Professional 68000 ASM from pianetaamiga.it (archived, ZIP) Source code for AMOS and STOS 68000 ASM from clickteam.com (archived, ZIP) The AMOS Factory (an AMOS support/community site) Amigacoding website (contains in-depth info and references for AMOS - Archived version 22 Sep 2015) History of STOS and AMOS: how they came to be published in the UK Amos Professional group on Facebook (one of the members is AMOS' original developer François Lionet) BASIC programming language family Video game development software Amiga development software Software using the BSD license Programming languages created in 1990
The Arcadia 2001 is a second-generation 8-bit home video game console released by Emerson Radio in May 1982 for a price of US$ 99, several months before the release of ColecoVision. It was discontinued only 18 months later, with a total of 35 games having been released. Emerson licensed the Arcadia 2001 to Bandai, which released it in Japan. Over 30 Arcadia 2001 clones exist. The unrelated Arcadia Corporation, manufacturer of the Atari 2600 Supercharger add-on, was sued by Emerson for trademark infringement. Arcadia Corporation then changed its name to Starpath. Description The Arcadia is much smaller than its contemporary competitors and is powered by a standard 12 volt power supply so it can be used in a boat or a vehicle. It has two headphone jacks on the far left and right sides of the back. The system came with two Intellivision-style controllers with a 12-button keypad and "fire" buttons on the sides. The direction pads have a removable joystick attachment. Most games came with BoPET overlays that can be applied to the controller's keypads. The console itself has five buttons: Power, Start, Reset, Option, and Select. There are at least three different cartridge case styles and artwork, with variations on each. Emerson-family cartridges come in two different lengths (short and long) of black plastic cases. Technical specifications Main Processor: Signetics 2650 CPU (some variants run a Signetics 2650A) RAM: 1 KB ROM: None Video display: 128 × 208 / 128 × 104, 8 Colours Video display controller: Signetics 2637 UVI @ 3.58 MHz (NTSC), 3.55 MHz (PAL) Sound: Single Channel "Beeper" + Single Channel "Noise" Hardware Sprites: 4 independent, single color Controllers: 2 × 2 way Keypads: 2 × 12 button (more buttons on some variants) Console variants and clones Many variants and clones of the Arcadia 2001 have been released by various companies in different countries. These systems are mostly compatible with each other. In 1982, the Bandai Arcadia was released only in Japan. Four exclusive games were released for the system. Bandai Arcadia In 1982, the Bandai Arcadia, a variant of the Emerson Arcadia 2001, was licensed and distributed to Japan by Bandai for a price of 19,800 yen. There were four Japan-exclusive games released by Bandai. Doraemon Dr. Slump Mobile Suit Gundam Super Dimension Fortress Macross Reception After seeing the Arcadia 2001 at the summer 1982 Consumer Electronics Show, Danny Goodman of Creative Computing Video & Arcade Games reported that its graphics were similar to the Atari 2600's, and that "our overall impression of the game play was favorable for a system in this price range, though no cartridge stands out as being an exciting original creation". He called the controller offering both Intellivision-like disc and joystick functionality "A great idea". Games Emerson planned to launch the console with 19 games. Some Arcadia 2001 games are ports of lesser-known arcade games such as Route 16, Jungler, and Jump Bug, which were not available on other home systems. Emerson actually created many popular arcade titles including Pac-Man, Galaxian and Defender for the Arcadia, but never had them manufactured as Atari started to sue its competitor companies for releasing games to which it had exclusive-rights agreements. Early marketing showed popular arcade games, but they were later released as clones. For instance, the Arcadia 2001 game Space Raiders is a clone of Defender, and Breakaway is a clone of Breakout. Released games There are 47 games known to have been released for the Arcadia 2001 and its clones. Bandai Arcadia Only See here Unreleased games References External links Video Game Console Library entry on the Arcadia 2001 TheGameConsole.com entry on the Arcadia 2001 The Dot Eaters entry on the Arcadia 2001 www.old-computers.com Emerson Arcadia 2001 museum entry www.old-computers.com Article about Arcadia 2001 and clones Arcadia 2001 retrospective at IGN Home video game consoles Second-generation video game consoles Bandai consoles Products introduced in 1982 Products and services discontinued in 1984 1980s toys Discontinued video game consoles
An audio optical disc is an optical disc that stores sound information such as music or speech. It may specifically refer to: Audio CDs Compact disc (CD), an optical disc used to store digital data (700 MB storage) Compact Disc Digital Audio (CD-DA), a CD that contains PCM encoded digital audio in the original "Red Book" CD-DA format 5.1 Music Disc, an extension to the Red Book standard that uses DTS Coherent Acoustics 5.1 surround sound Compressed audio optical disc, an optical disc storing MP3s and other compressed audio files as data, rather than in the Red Book format Audio DVDs DVD, 4 GB single layer, 8 GB double layer storage DVD-Audio, a DVD that plays audio Super Audio CD (SACD), a format which competes with DVD-Audio Audio Blu-rays Blu-ray, 25 GB single layer, 50 GB double layer BD-Audio, a Blu-ray disc that is capable of audio-only playback See also CD-4 or Compatible discrete four-channel sound, a variety of quadrophonic audio for vinyl records
Abracadabra is a magic word, historically used as an incantation on amulets and common today in stage magic. Etymology Abracadabra is of unknown origin, but according to the Oxford English Dictionary, its first known occurrence is in the second-century works of Serenus Sammonicus. Several folk etymologies are associated with the word: from phrases in Hebrew that mean "I will create as I speak", or Aramaic "I create like the word" (אברא כדברא), to folk etymologies that point to similar words in Latin and Greek such as abraxas or to its similarity to the first four letters of the Greek alphabet (alpha-beta-gamma-delta or ΑΒΓΔ). According to the OED Online, "no documentation has been found to support any of the various conjectures." History The first known mention of the word was in the second century AD in a book called Liber Medicinalis (sometimes known as De Medicina Praecepta Saluberrima) by Serenus Sammonicus, physician to the Roman emperor Caracalla, who in chapter 52 prescribed that malaria sufferers wear an amulet containing the word written in the form of a triangle. The power of the amulet, he claimed, makes lethal diseases go away. Other Roman emperors, including Geta and Severus Alexander, were followers of the medical teachings of Serenus Sammonicus and may have used the incantation as well. It was used as a magical formula by the Gnostics of the sect of Basilides in invoking the aid of beneficent spirits against disease and misfortune. It is found on Abraxas stones, which were worn as amulets. Subsequently, its use spread beyond the Gnostics. The Puritan minister Increase Mather dismissed the word as bereft of power. Daniel Defoe also wrote dismissively about Londoners who posted the word on their doorways to ward off sickness during the Great Plague of London. The religion of Thelema spells the word 'Abrahadabra', and considers it the magical formula of the current Aeon. The religion's founder, Aleister Crowley, explains in his essay Gematria that he discovered the word (and his spelling) by qabalistic methods. The word 'Abrahadabra' also appears repeatedly in the 1904 invocation of Horus that led to the founding of Thelema. (The Equinox I, no. 7. 1912) Abracadabra is now more commonly used in the performance of stage magic as a magic word at the culmination of a trick. See also — Spell from the Harry Potter series References External links Abracadabra Robert Todd Carroll, Skeptic's Dictionary Amulets Magic words Incantation Superstitions of Europe Macaronic language Ancient Roman culture
An amphibian is a member of the class Amphibia of ectothermic, tetrapod vertebrates Amphibian may also refer to: Amphibian (comics), two superheroes from Marvel Comics "Amphibian" (song), by Björk Amphibious aircraft, an aircraft that can operate from water or land Loening OL or Loening Amphibian, an amphibious biplane built for the US Army Air Corps and Navy Mark IV Amphibian, a type of World War II period British rebreather See also Amphibia (disambiguation) Amphibious (disambiguation)
An associate justice of the Supreme Court of the United States is any justice of the Supreme Court of the United States other than the chief justice of the United States. The number of associate justices is eight, as set by the Judiciary Act of 1869. Article II, Section 2, Clause 2 of the Constitution of the United States grants plenary power to the president to nominate, and with the advice and consent (confirmation) of the Senate, appoint justices to the Supreme Court. Article III, Section 1 of the Constitution effectively grants life tenure to associate justices, and all other federal judges, which ends only when a justice dies, retires, resigns, or is impeached and convicted. Each Supreme Court justice has a single vote in deciding the cases argued before it, and the chief justice's vote counts no more than that of any other justice; however, the chief justice leads the discussion of the case among the justices. Furthermore, the chief justice—when in the majority—decides who writes the court's opinion; otherwise, the senior justice in the majority assigns the writing of a decision. The chief justice also has certain administrative responsibilities that the other justices do not and is paid slightly more ($298,500 per year as of 2023, compared to $285,400 per year for an associate justice). Associate justices have seniority in order of the date their respective commissions bear, although the chief justice is always considered to be the most senior justice. If two justices are commissioned on the same day, the elder is designated the senior justice of the two. Currently, the senior associate justice is Clarence Thomas. By tradition, when the justices are in conference deliberating the outcome of cases before the Supreme Court, the justices state their views in order of seniority. The senior associate justice is also tasked with carrying out the chief justice's duties when he is unable to, or if that office is vacant. Current associate justices There are currently eight associate justices on the Supreme Court. The justices, ordered by seniority, are: Retired associate justices An associate justice who leaves the Supreme Court after attaining the age and meeting the service requirements prescribed by federal statute () may retire rather than resign. After retirement, they keep their title, and by custom may also keep a set of chambers in the Supreme Court building, and employ law clerks. The names of retired associate justices continue to appear alongside those of the active justices in the bound volumes of Supreme Court decisions. Federal statute () provides that retired Supreme Court justices may serve—if designated and assigned by the chief justice—on panels of the U.S. courts of appeals, or on the U.S. district courts. Retired justices are not, however, authorized to take part in the consideration or decision of any cases before the Supreme Court (unlike other retired federal judges who may be permitted to do so in their former courts); neither are they known or designated as a "senior judge". When, after his retirement, William O. Douglas attempted to take a more active role than was customary, maintaining that it was his prerogative to do so because of his senior status, he was rebuffed by Chief Justice Warren Burger and admonished by the whole Court. There are currently four living retired associate justices: Sandra Day O'Connor, retired January 31, 2006; David Souter, retired June 29, 2009; Anthony Kennedy, retired July 31, 2018; and Stephen Breyer, retired June 30, 2022. Souter has served on panels of the First Circuit Courts of Appeals following his retirement, while O'Connor also served on panels of various circuit courts for several years following her retirement and prior to her later withdrawal from public life; Kennedy and Breyer have not performed any judicial duties since retiring. List of associate justices Since the Supreme Court was established in 1789, the following 104 persons have served as an associate justice: Notes References Further reading External links Historic Supreme Court Decisionsby Justice, Legal Information Institute, Cornell University Law School Supreme Court of the United States (website home page) Supreme Court of the United States people United States federal judges Legal professions
Analcime (; ) or analcite is a white, gray, or colorless tectosilicate mineral. Analcime consists of hydrated sodium aluminium silicate in cubic crystalline form. Its chemical formula is NaAlSi2O6·H2O. Minor amounts of potassium and calcium substitute for sodium. A silver-bearing synthetic variety also exists (Ag-analcite). Analcime is usually classified as a zeolite mineral, but structurally and chemically it is more similar to the feldspathoids. Analcime isn't classified as an isometric crystal, as although the crystal structure appears to be isometric, it is usually off only by a fraction of an angle. However, there are truly isometric samples of the mineral, which makes its classification even more difficult. Due to the differences between the samples being too slight, there's no merit from having multiple species names, so as a result analcime is a common example for minerals occurring in multiple crystal systems and space groups. It was first described by French geologist Déodat de Dolomieu, who called it zéolithe dure, meaning hard zeolite. It was found in lava in Cyclops, Italy. The mineral is IMA approved, and had been grandfathered, meaning the name analcime is believed to refer to a valid species til this day. Properties Analcime crystals always look pseudocubic. Its common crystal forms include trapezohedron, truncated trapezohedron with cubic faces, and more rarely either as a truncated trapezohedron, or the crystals can take the shape of a truncated cube that is typical to bixbyites. The crystals can occur either individually, as interconnected, form groups on plates or even in druzy form. Crystal masses can also form veins sometimes. Individual crystals are euhedral, meaning they have well defined faces. When on a matrix, the mineral takes a granular habit, meaning the crystals become anhedral. The color of the mineral varies due to trace impurities. The mineral is weakly piezoelectric and pyroelectric, meaning it produces a weak electric charge when it's rubbed or heated, hence the name analcime. Other characteristics include the fact that the mineral can have a blueish white fluorescence when inspected under short UV light, and a creamy white-yellow one inspected under long UV light. It does not show any pleochroic or radioactive properties. Analyses regarding the mineral's symmetry vary in results, however the most prevalent one being tetragonal. The mineral usually has polysynthetic twins, which are only visible in thin sections when the specimen is inspected under polarized analyzed light. Analcime mainly consists of oxygen (50.87%), silicon (25.51%), aluminum (12.26%), sodium (10.44%) but otherwise has a negligible amount of hydrogen (0.92%) as well. The highest quality specimens take the form of a trapezohedron, and can reach up to 25 cm. These specimens are associated with serandite, aegyrine and natrolite, and can be found at Mont Saint-Hilaire, Quebec. Of the pinkish-white specimens, the mineral takes the shape of well-formed cubes which can exceed 10 cm, originating from several sites in Val di Fassa, Trentino, Italy. Formation and Associated Minerals Analcime occurs as a primary mineral in analcime basalt and other alkaline igneous rocks. It also occurs as cavity and vesicle fillings associated with prehnite, calcite, and zeolites. Analcime forms in sedimentary rocks at temperatures below about , and so its presence indicates that the rock has experienced shallow diagenesis. Although it is common in igneous rocks (namely basalts and trachy-basalts), it is more rarely found in phonolites. Associations include zeolites, calcite and prehnite, however it is also found in nepheline syenites and their pegmatites. It forms a series with pollucite. Locations Well known locations for sourcing analcime include Croft Quarry in Leicestershire, UK; the Cyclopean Islands east off Sicily and near Trentino in northern Italy; Victoria in Australia; Kerguelen Island in the Indian Ocean; in the Lake Superior copper district of Michigan, Bergen Hill, New Jersey, Golden, Colorado, and at Searles Lake, California in the United States; and at Cape Blomidon, Nova Scotia and Mont Saint-Hilaire, Quebec in Canada; and in Iceland, and now in Namibia. Siberian samples from Nidym and Toura provide us with white crystals of 18 cm. Samples of the Cyclopean Islands are known for their beautiful and clear crystals, just like the crystals of Kings Valley and Springfield in Oregon, which can reach up to 6 cm. Coleman, Alberta in Canada is known for producing beautiful red crystals. Usage Other than its aesthetic values, analcime currently presents no use. Crystallized specimens are sought after by collectors, and the mineral is hardly ever made into jewelry. The crystals made into jewelries are uncut and handcrafted. It has lacking use as a microporous material. This is due to the fact that analcime has a compact structure and thus it has a strong resistance to diffusion of both molecules and cations. Analcime-bearing tuffs are sometimes used as building materials. See also References Hurlbut, Cornelius S.; Klein, Cornelis, 1985, Manual of Mineralogy, 20th ed., Mineral Galleries Mindat.org Webmineral.com External links structure type ANA Zeolites Sodium minerals Aluminium minerals Orthorhombic minerals Minerals in space group 73
Alexey Leonidovich Pajitnov (born April 16, 1955) is a Russian computer engineer and video game designer who is best known for creating, designing, and developing Tetris in 1985 while working at the Dorodnitsyn Computing Centre under the Academy of Sciences of the Soviet Union (now the Russian Academy of Sciences). In 1991, he moved to the United States and later became a U.S. citizen. In 1996, Pajitnov founded The Tetris Company alongside Dutch video game designer Henk Rogers. Pajitnov did not receive royalties from Tetris prior to this time, despite the game's high popularity. Early life Pajitnov was born to parents who were both writers. His father was an art critic. His mother was a journalist who wrote for both newspapers and a film magazine. It was through his parents that Pajitnov gained exposure to the arts, eventually developing a passion for cinema. He accompanied his mother to many film screenings, including the Moscow Film Festival. Pajitnov was also mathematically inclined, enjoying puzzles and problem solving. In 1967, when he was 11 years old, Pajitnov's parents divorced. For several years, he lived with his mother in a one-bedroom apartment owned by the state. The two were eventually able to move into a private apartment at 49 Gertsen Street, when Pajitnov was 17. He later went on to study applied mathematics at the Moscow Aviation Institute. Career In 1977, Pajitnov worked as a summer intern at the Soviet Academy of Sciences. Once he graduated in 1979, he accepted a job there working on speech recognition at the Academy's Dorodnitsyn Computing Centre. When the Computing Centre received new equipment, its researchers would write a small program for it in order to test its computing capabilities. According to Pajitnov, this "became [his] excuse for making games". Computer games were fascinating to him because they offered a way to bridge the gap between logic and emotion, and Pajitnov held interests in both mathematics and puzzles, as well as the psychology of computing. Searching for inspiration, Pajitnov recalled his childhood memories of playing pentominoes, a game in which the user creates pictures using its shapes. Remembering the difficulty he had in putting the pieces back into their box, Pajitnov felt inspired to create a game based on that concept. Using an Electronika 60 in the Computing Centre, he began working on what would become the first version of Tetris. Building the first prototype in two weeks, Pajitnov spent longer playtesting and adding to the game, completing it on June 6, 1985. This primitive version did not have levels or a scoring system, but Pajitnov knew he had a potentially great game, since he could not stop playing it at work. The game attracted the interest of coworkers like fellow programmer Dmitri Pevlovsky, who helped Pajitnov connect with Vadim Gerasimov, a 16-year-old intern at the Soviet Academy. Pajitnov wanted to make a color version of Tetris for the IBM Personal Computer, and enlisted the intern to help. Gerasimov created the PC version in less than three weeks, and with contributions from Pevlovsky, spent an additional month adding new features like scorekeeping and sound effects. The game, first available in the Soviet Union, appeared in the West in 1986. Pajitnov created a sequel to Tetris, entitled Welltris, which has the same principle, but in a three-dimensional environment where the player sees the playing area from above. Tetris was licensed and managed by Soviet company ELORG, which had a monopoly on the import and export of computer hardware and software in the Soviet Union, and advertised with the slogan "From Russia with Love" (on NES: "From Russia with Fun!"). Because he was employed by the Soviet government, Pajitnov did not receive royalties. Pajitnov, together with Vladimir Pokhilko, moved to the United States following the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, and in 1996 founded The Tetris Company with Henk Rogers, which finally allowed him to collect royalties from his game. He helped design the puzzles in the Super NES versions of Yoshi's Cookie and designed the game Pandora's Box, which incorporates more traditional jigsaw-style puzzles. Pajitnov and Pokhilko founded the 3D software technology company AnimaTek, which developed the game / screensaver El-Fish. He was employed by Microsoft from October 1996 until 2005. While there, he worked on the Microsoft Entertainment Pack: The Puzzle Collection, MSN Mind Aerobics and MSN Games groups. Pajitnov's new, enhanced version of Hexic, Hexic HD, was included with every new Xbox 360 Premium package. In August 2005, WildSnake Software announced that Pajitnov would be collaborating with them to release a new line of puzzle games. Personal life Pajitnov moved to the United States in 1991, was naturalized as a U.S. citizen and now lives in Clyde Hill, Washington. He has a wife, Nina, with whom he had two sons named Artem and Dmitri. Political views After the Russian invasion of Ukraine in 2022, Pajitnov issued a statement condemning the war and stating that he was "sure that Putin and his hateful regime will fall down and the normal peaceful way of living will be restored in Ukraine and, hopefully, in Russia." Games Awards and recognition In 1996, GameSpot named him as the fourth most influential computer game developer of all time. In March 2007, he received the Game Developers Choice Awards First Penguin Award. The award was given for pioneering the casual games market. In June 2009, he received the honorary award at the LARA - Der Deutsche Games Award in Cologne, Germany. In 2012, IGN included Pajitnov on their list of 5 Memorable Video Game Industry One-Hit Wonders, calling him "the ultimate video game one-hit wonder." In 2015, Pajitnov won the Bizkaia Award at the Fun & Serious Game Festival. Pajitnov was portrayed by Russian actor Nikita Yefremov in the 2023 movie Tetris, a dramatised retelling of the licensing bidding war for Tetris in the late 1980s. See also BreakThru!, video game endorsed by Pajitnov ClockWerx, video game endorsed by Pajitnov Notes References External links Alexey L. Pajitnov profile at MobyGames Tetris Creator Claims Free and Open Source Software Destroys the Market. Tetris — From Russia with Love, BBC documentary 1955 births Living people Game Developers Conference Pioneer Award recipients Moscow Aviation Institute alumni Microsoft employees Russian activists against the Russian invasion of Ukraine Russian computer programmers Russian emigrants to the United States Russian inventors Russian video game designers Scientists from Moscow Soviet computer scientists Tetris Russian scientists
Ambrose of Alexandria (before 212 – c. 250) was a friend of the Christian theologian Origen. Ambrose was attracted by Origen's fame as a teacher, and visited the Catechetical School of Alexandria in 212. At first a gnostic Valentinian and Marcionist, Ambrose, through Origen's teaching, eventually rejected this theology and became Origen's constant companion, and was ordained deacon. He plied Origen with questions, and urged him to write his Commentaries (treating him as "" in Commentary on John V,1) on the books of the Bible, and, as a wealthy nobleman and courtier, he provided his teacher with books for his studies and secretaries to lighten the labor of composition. He suffered during the persecution under the Roman emperor Maximinus Thrax in 235. He was later released and died a confessor. The last mention of Ambrose in the historical record is in Origen's Contra Celsum, which the latter wrote at the solicitation of Ambrose. Origen often speaks of Ambrose affectionately as a man of education with excellent literary and scholarly tastes. All of Origen's works written after 218 are dedicated to Ambrose, including his On Martyrdom, Contra Celsum, Commentary on St. John's Gospel, and On Prayer. Ambrose's letters to Origen (praised by Jerome) are lost, although part of one exists. Veneration Ambrose is venerated as a saint by some branches of Christianity. His feast day in the Catholic Church falls on 17 March. References Saints from Roman Egypt Egyptian theologians 3rd-century Egyptian people 250 deaths Christian anti-Gnosticism 3rd-century Christian saints Year of birth uncertain
Apollinarism or Apollinarianism is a Christological heresy proposed by Apollinaris of Laodicea (died 390) that argues that Jesus had a human body and sensitive human soul, but a divine mind and not a human rational mind, the Divine Logos taking the place of the latter. It was deemed heretical in 381 and virtually died out within the following decades. History The Trinity had been recognized at the Council of Nicea in 325, but debate about exactly what it meant continued. A rival to the more common belief that Jesus Christ had two natures was monophysitism ("one nature"), the doctrine that Christ had only one nature. Apollinarism and Eutychianism were two forms of monophysitism. Apollinaris's rejection of Christ having a human mind was considered an over-reaction to Arianism and its teaching that Christ was a lesser god. Theodoret charged Apollinaris with confounding the persons of the Godhead and giving in to the heretical ways of Sabellius. Basil of Caesarea accused him of abandoning the literal sense of the scripture, and taking it up wholly with the allegorical sense. His views were condemned in a Synod at Alexandria, under Athanasius of Alexandria, in 362, and later subdivided into several different heresies, the main ones of which were the Polemians and the Antidicomarianites. Apollinaris, considering the rational soul and spirit as essentially liable to sin and capable, at its best, of only precarious efforts, saw no way of saving Christ's impeccability and the infinite value of Redemption, except by the elimination of the human spirit from Jesus' humanity, and the substitution of the Divine Logos in its stead. Apollinarism was declared to be a heresy in 381 by the First Council of Constantinople. Neo-Apollinarism Christian philosopher William Lane Craig has proposed a neo-Apollinarian Christology in which the divine Logos completes the human nature of Christ. Craig says his proposal is tentative and he welcomes critique and interaction from other scholars. Craig also clarifies "what I called a Neo-Apollinarian Christological model" by stating that See also References Sources Artemi, E., «Mia physis of God Logos sesarkomeni» a)The analysis of this phrase according to Cyril of Alexandria b)The analysis of this phrase according to Apollinaris of Laodicea», Ecclesiastic Faros t. ΟΔ (2003), 293 – 304. Chan, Joyce (2021). Apollinarianism, Carey Theological College, University of British Columbia. McGrath, Alister. 1998. Historical Theology, An Introduction to the History of Christian Thought. Oxford: Blackwell Publishers. Chapter 1. 4th-century Christianity Christian terminology Heresy in ancient Christianity Nature of Jesus Christ
Alcobaça () is a Portuguese city and municipality in the Oeste region, in the historical province of Estremadura, and in the Leiria District. The city grew along the valleys of the rivers Alcoa and Baça, from which it derives its name. The municipality population in 2011 was 56,693, in an area of . The city proper has a population of 15,800 inhabitants. The city of Alcobaça became notable after the first king of Portugal, Afonso Henriques, decided to build a church to commemorate the Conquest of Santarém from the Moors in 1147. The church later evolved into the Monastery of Alcobaça, one of the most magnificent Gothic monuments in the country. In the church are the tombs of Pedro I of Portugal and his murdered mistress Inês de Castro. Over the centuries this monastery played an important role in shaping Portuguese culture. A few kilometers to the north of Alcobaça is the Monastery of Batalha, another Gothic building constructed in memory of a different important battle, that of Aljubarrota. To the west of Alcobaça is the fishing village of Nazaré, now a popular resort town. To the south is the city of Caldas da Rainha and the medieval town of Óbidos. To the northeast is the town of Porto de Mós with its rebuilt castle. History Alcobaça became notable in the 12th century, when it was chosen as the future site of Portugal's largest church. In March 1147, the young King Dom Afonso Henriques defeated the Moors by capturing the city of Santarém. As a tribute to his victory, he vowed to build a magnificent home for the Order of Cistercians. It took another 76 years before this task was completed. The monarchy continued to carry out further construction and 60 years later King Dinis built the main cloister. The monastery was consecrated in 1262. The church contains the tombs of Pedro I of Portugal and his murdered mistress Inês de Castro. Pedro had married Constanza, the Infanta (princess) of Castile, but escaped with his mistress Inês and later lived in the city of Coimbra. His father, King Afonso IV, believing that the family of Inês was a threat to his kingdom, had her murdered. Shortly after the death of his father, Pedro declared that he had married Inês in a prior secret ceremony in Bragança, and took a gruesome revenge on the killers and exhumed her body. He presented the embalmed corpse at the court with a crown on her head and demanded that all his courtiers kneel and individually pay homage to her decomposed hand. Today, their ornate tombs face each other so that on Judgment Day his first sight would be of Inês. During the following centuries, the monks from this monastery had a major influence on the development of Portuguese culture. Notably, in 1269 they were the first to give public lessons to their congregation, and later they produced the first authoritative history on Portugal in a series of books. In 1810, the invading French pillaged the abbey, taking with them most of its most important treasures, including the noteworthy library. The items that remained were later stolen in 1834 during an anti-clerical riot and the banning of religious orders in Portugal. Climate Alcobaça has a Mediterranean climate (Köppen:Csb) with warm, dry summers and mild, wet winters. Parishes Administratively, the municipality is divided into 13 civil parishes (freguesias): Alcobaça e Vestiaria Alfeizerão Aljubarrota Bárrio Benedita Cela Coz, Alpedriz e Montes Évora de Alcobaça Maiorga Pataias e Martingança São Martinho do Porto Turquel Vimeiro City information The main feature of the city is essentially the monastery that proudly presents a long and sombre façade with 18th-century embellishments. This austerity is further emphasized in the cloisters with its apt name of "Cloister of Silence". In contrast within the Abbey is the massive kitchen with a running stream specially diverted to pass through as a supply of fresh water. The open area of the kitchen chimney is large enough to take a whole ox for roasting. The surround to the sacristy doorway is an outstanding example of Manueline decoration. In 1794, Lord Beckford visited the Abbey and commented that he found some 300 monks "living in a very splendid manner"! Nearby locations A few kilometers to the north of Alcobaça is another wondrous building constructed in memory of a different important battle, that of Aljubarrota in 1385, when King John I of Portugal defeated the Castilians and ensuring two hundred years of independence from the Castilian invaders. The construction of the Abbey at Batalha commenced in 1388 and was added to by various Portuguese Kings over these next two centuries. To the east of Batalha is the world-famous location of Fátima and a point of pilgrimage for the Roman Catholic religion due to the vision of the Virgin Mary in 1917 by three young children whilst tending their flock. To the west of Alcobaça is the well-known fishing village of Nazaré. Today, the village is now a small town and a popular holiday resort with most of its past and traditions having rapidly evaporated in the course of time. A very successful Portuguese feature film was made in the early 20th century that dramatically captured the primitive and dangerous life of these fishermen. Stoutly Catholic, the inhabitants have retained some of their past as can be still seen in their own particular style of costume. To the south is Caldas da Rainha and the quaint medieval town of Óbidos that is an attraction for any tourists that enjoys a true glimpse of the past. Also to the south is the town of Porto de Mós with its fanciful rebuilt castle. This town borders the Nature Reserve Parque Natural das Serras de Aire e Candeeiros. These 390 square kilometres of limestone-covered landscape is also known for its caverns. The best known being the Grutas de Mira de Aire can be visited and consists of tunnels, caverns with stalactites, stalagmites, lakes, and a music and light finale. Major events Market days – Every Monday Carnaval de Alcobaça – February/March Cistermúsica – classical music festival – June / July Saint Bernard's fair – August 20 Municipal holiday – August 20 Marionetas na Cidade – puppetry festival – mid-October Saint Simon's fair – 4th week of October International display of Sweets and Conventual Liqueurs – November Notable people from Alcobaça Joaquim Ferreira Bogalho (1889–1977) the 20th president of S.L. Benfica Virgínia Vitorino, (Wiki PT) (1895-1967) a teacher, poet and playwright. Joaquim Vieira de Natividade, (Wiki PT) (1899-1968) an agricultural engineer José Aurélio, (Wiki PT) (born 1938) a sculptor, works in stone, wood and bronze João Lourenço (born 1942) a former footballer with 207 club caps Alberto Costa (born 1947) politician, Minister of Justice, 2005-2009. Nuno Gonçalves, a Portuguese musician, founder of The Gift. João Traquina (born 1988) a Portuguese footballer with over 350 club caps João Pedro Silva (born 1989) a Portuguese professional triathlete, competed at the 2012 Summer Olympics The Gift (formed 1994) a Portuguese alternative rock band Loto (formed 2002) an electro-pop-rock-dance music band Spartak! (2006–2008) a musical collective from Alcobaça JÜRA Popular pop artist based in Lisbon International relations Alcobaça is twinned with: Aubergenville, France Bełchatów, Poland Cacuaco, Angola Chicopee, United States See also Alcobaça IPR Monastery of Alcobaça Monastery of Batalha Nazaré References External links Municipality official website Populated places in Leiria District Cities in Portugal Centro Region Municipalities of Leiria District World Heritage Sites in Portugal UNESCO Iberian locality names of Arabic origin
The amphisbaena (, , or , plural: amphisbaenae; ) is a mythological, ant-eating serpent with a head at each end. The creature is alternatively called the amphisbaina, amphisbene, amphisboena, amphisbona, amphista, amfivena, amphivena, or anphivena (the last two being feminine), and is also known as the "Mother of Ants". Its name comes from the Greek words , meaning "both ways", and , meaning "to go". Mythology According to Greek mythology, the amphisbaena was spawned from the blood that dripped from the Gorgon Medusa's head as Perseus flew over the Libyan Desert with her head in his hand, after which Cato's army then encountered it along with other serpents on the march. Amphisbaena fed on the corpses left behind. The amphisbaena has been referred to by various poets such as Nicander, John Milton, Alexander Pope, Percy Bysshe Shelley, Alfred Tennyson, Aimé Césaire, A. E. Housman and Allen Mandelbaum; as a mythological and legendary creature, it has been referenced by Lucan, Pliny the Elder, Isidore of Seville, and Thomas Browne, the last of whom debunked its existence ( book three chapter XV). Appearance These early descriptions of the amphisbaena depict a venomous, dual-headed snakelike creature. However, medieval and later drawings often show it with two or more scaled feet, particularly chicken feet, and feathered wings. Some even depict it as a horned, dragon-like creature with a serpent-headed tail and small, round ears, while others have both "necks" of equal size so that it cannot be determined which is the rear head. Many descriptions of the amphisbaena say its eyes glow like candles or lightning, but the poet Nicander seems to contradict this by describing it as "always dull of eye". He also says: "From either end protrudes a blunt chin; each is far from each other." Nicander's account seems to be referring to what is indeed called the Amphisbaenia, a group of real lizards. Habitat The amphisbaena is said to make its home in the desert. Folk medicine In ancient times, the supposedly dangerous amphisbaena had many uses in the art of folk medicine and other such remedies. Pliny notes that expecting women wearing a live amphisbaena around their necks would have safe pregnancies; however, if one's goal was to cure ailments such as arthritis or the common cold, one should wear only its skin. By eating the meat of the amphisbaena, one could supposedly attract many lovers of the opposite sex, and slaying one during the full moon could give power to one who is pure of heart and mind. Lumberjacks suffering from cold weather on the job could nail its carcass or skin to a tree to keep warm, while in the process allowing the tree to be felled more easily. Origins In The Book of Beasts, T.H. White suggests that the creature derives from sightings of the worm lizards of the same name. These creatures are found in the Mediterranean countries where many of these legends originated. The Códice Casanatense (), a Portuguese book describing the areas the Portuguese had visited, includes an illustration of the flora and fauna of India. One of the animals shown is a two-headed snake (conjoined twin snakes), with one head on each end, much like an amphisbaena. The image is captioned, "two headed snakes of India are harmless". It is possible a sighting of an animal like this was the origin of the amphisbaena. In media In Dante's Inferno, the amphisbaena is listed as one of the types of reptiles that torment thieves in the seventh bolgia. In John Milton's Paradise Lost, after the Fall and the return of Satan to Hell, some of the fallen angelic host are transformed into the amphisbaena, to represent the animal by which the Fall was caused, i.e. a snake. Amphisbaena appears in some editions of the tabletop roleplaying game Dungeons & Dragons. Amphisbaena has appeared in several video games as an enemy or boss monster, including La-Mulana and Bravely Second: End Layer. A creature called Amphisbaena appears in the games Castlevania: Symphony of the Night and Portrait of Ruin but bears little resemblance to other renditions of the creature, appearing as an eyeless 4-legged reptile with the upper body of a human woman sprouting from its long tail instead of a double-headed serpent. In the 1984 animated film Gallavants, an amphisbaena (called a 'Vanterviper' in the film) appears as a minor antagonist. The two heads, a red one named Edil and a blue one called Fice, frequently disagree and argue, and sing a song about their miserable plight. The amphisbaena is mentioned in The Last Wish, from The Witcher series by Andrzej Sapkowski, while protagonist Geralt of Rivia recalls past events. The amphisbaena was endangering the region of Kovir until the beast was slain by Geralt's hand. Amphisbaena is referenced in RWBY, an animated web series created by Monty Oum, in the form of an evil creature called Grimm. Of the different Grimm, the amphisbaena appears to be the King Taijitu, a two-headed snake or serpent. The king's name references the taijitu, a symbol or diagram in Chinese philosophy representing Taiji in both its monist and dualist aspects. The Grimm's coloration visually symbolizes the taijitu, with one head and body section black and the opposite side white. The amphisbaena appears in the Rise of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles episode "Battle Nexus: New York." This version is one of the known champions of the Battle Nexus. Big Mama had Michelangelo and Meat Sweats compete to feed each of its heads in order to satisfy the amphisbaena. They managed to work together to pull it off. Brandon Sanderson's novel Skyward has a character whose name is Arturo Mendez. His call sign is amphisbaena. See also Amphisbaenia Polycephaly Ouroboros Double-headed serpent Pushmi-Pullyu References Bibliography Hunt, Jonathan (1998). Bestiary: An Illuminated Alphabet of Medieval Beasts (1st ed.). Hong Kong: Simon & Schuster. . Levy, Sidney J. (1996). "Stalking the Amphisbaena", Journal of Consumer Research, 23 (3), Dec. 1996, pp. 163–176. External links Theoi Greek Mythology : Amphisbaena Greek legendary creatures Legendary serpents Mythical many-headed creatures Medusa
Amyl alcohols are alcohols with the formula C5H11OH. Eight are known. A mixture of amyl alcohols (also called amyl alcohol) can be obtained from fusel alcohol. Amyl alcohol is used as a solvent and in esterification, by which is produced amyl acetate and other products. The name amyl alcohol without further specification applies to the normal (straight-chain) form, 1-pentanol. {| class="wikitable sortable" |+Amyl alcohol isomers |- ! Common name !! Structure !! Type !! IUPAC name !! Boiling point (°C) |- | 1-pentanolor normal amyl alcohol | | primary | Pentan-1-ol | 138.5 |- | 2-methyl-1-butanolor active amyl alcohol | | primary | 2-Methylbutan-1-ol | 128.7 |- | 3-methyl-1-butanolor isoamyl alcoholor isopentyl alcohol | | primary | 3-Methylbutan-1-ol | 131.2 |- | 2,2-dimethyl-1-propanolor neopentyl alcohol | | primary | 2,2-Dimethylpropan-1-ol | 113.1 |- | 2-pentanolor sec-amyl alcoholor methyl (n) propyl carbinol | | secondary | Pentan-2-ol | 118.8 |- | 3-methyl-2-butanolor sec-isoamyl alcoholor methyl isopropyl carbinol | | secondary | 3-Methylbutan-2-ol | 113.6 |- | 3-Pentanol | | secondary | Pentan-3-ol | 115.3 |- | 2-methyl-2-butanolor tert-amyl alcohol | | tertiary | 2-Methylbutan-2-ol | 102 |} Three of these alcohols, 2-methyl-1-butanol, 2-pentanol, and 3-methyl-2-butanol (methyl isopropyl carbinol), contain stereocenters, and are therefore chiral and optically active. The most important amyl alcohol is isoamyl alcohol, the chief one generated by fermentation in the production of alcoholic beverages and a constituent of fusel oil. The other amyl alcohols may be obtained synthetically. References Alkanols GABAA receptor positive allosteric modulators
Amyl nitrite is a chemical compound with the formula C5H11ONO. A variety of isomers are known, but they all feature an amyl group attached to the nitrite functional group. The alkyl group is unreactive and the chemical and biological properties are mainly due to the nitrite group. Like other alkyl nitrites, amyl nitrite is bioactive in mammals, being a vasodilator, which is the basis of its use as a prescription medicine. As an inhalant, it also has a psychoactive effect, which has led to its recreational use, with its smell being described as that of old socks or dirty feet. It is also referred to as banapple gas. It was first documented in 1844 and came into medical use in 1867. Uses Amyl nitrite is employed medically to treat heart diseases as well as angina. Amyl nitrite is sometimes used as an antidote for cyanide poisoning. It can act as an oxidant, to induce the formation of methemoglobin. Methemoglobin in turn can sequester cyanide as cyanomethemoglobin. Amyl nitrite is used as a cleaning agent and solvent in industrial and household applications. It replaced dichlorodifluoromethane, an industrial chemical universally banned in 1996 due to damage to the ozone layer, as a printed circuit board cleaner. Trace amounts are added to some perfumes. It is also used recreationally as an inhalant drug that induces a brief euphoric state, and when combined with other intoxicant stimulant drugs such as cocaine or MDMA, the euphoric state intensifies and is prolonged. Once some stimulative drugs wear off, a common side effect is a period of depression or anxiety, colloquially called a "come down"; amyl nitrite is sometimes used to combat these negative after-effects. This effect, combined with its dissociative effects, has led to its use as a recreational drug (see poppers). Nomenclature The term "amyl nitrite" encompasses several isomers. In older literature, the common non-systematic name amyl was often used for the pentyl group, where the amyl group is a linear or normal (n) alkyl group, and the resulting amyl nitrite would have the structural formula CH3(CH2)4ONO, also referred to as n-amyl nitrite. A common form of amyl nitrite is the isomer with the formula (CH3)2CHCH2CH2ONO, which may be more specifically referred to as isoamyl nitrite. The similarly named amyl nitrate has very different properties. At the same time, isopropyl nitrite has a similar structure and similar uses (also called 'poppers') but with worse side-effects. Synthesis and reactions Alkyl nitrites are prepared by the reaction of alcohols with nitrous acid: ROH + HONO → RONO + H2O, where R = alkyl group The reaction is called esterification. Synthesis of alkyl nitrites is, in general, straightforward and can be accomplished in home laboratories. A common procedure includes the dropwise addition of concentrated sulfuric acid to a cooled mixture of an aqueous sodium nitrite solution and an alcohol. The intermediately-formed stoichiometric mixture of nitrogen dioxide and nitric oxide then converts the alcohol to the alkyl nitrite, which, due to its low density, will form an upper layer that can be easily decanted from the reaction mixture. Isoamyl nitrite decomposes in the presence of base to give nitrite salts and the isoamyl alcohol: C5H11ONO + NaOH → C5H11OH + NaNO2 Amyl nitrite, like other alkyl nitrites, reacts with carbanions to give oximes. Amyl nitrites are also useful as reagents in a modification of the Sandmeyer reaction. The reaction of the alkyl nitrite with an aromatic amine in a halogenated solvent produces a radical aromatic species, this then frees a halogen atom from the solvent. For the synthesis of aryl iodides diiodomethane is used, whereas bromoform is the solvent of choice for the synthesis of aryl bromides. Physiological effects Amyl nitrite, in common with other alkyl nitrites, is a potent vasodilator; it expands blood vessels, resulting in lowering of the blood pressure. Amyl nitrite may be used during cardiovascular stress testing in patients with suspected hypertrophic cardiomyopathy to cause vasodilation and thereby reduce afterload and provoke obstruction of blood flow towards the aorta from the ventricle by increasing the pressure gradient, thereby causing left ventricular outflow obstruction. Alkyl nitrites are a source of nitric oxide, which signals for relaxation of the involuntary muscles. Physical effects include decrease in blood pressure, headache, flushing of the face, increased heart rate, dizziness, and relaxation of involuntary muscles, especially the blood vessel walls and the internal and external anal sphincter. There are no withdrawal symptoms. Overdose symptoms include nausea, vomiting, hypotension, hypoventilation, shortness of breath, and fainting. The effects set in very quickly, typically within a few seconds and disappear within a few minutes. Amyl nitrite may also intensify the experience of synesthesia. Amyl nitrite, when given as a medication for patients with angina, can also be administered as an ampule. The ampule is put in a gauze pad and then inhaled by the patient during an angina attack and repeated every fifteen minutes. However, oral dosing of amyl nitrite is ineffective due to poor absorption and extensive hepatic metabolism. Amyl nitrite has been widely replaced by nitroglycerin for the treatment of acute angina. Toxicity Although there are case reports of life-threatening toxicity involving unusually large amounts, typical inhaled doses of amyl nitrite are considered relatively safe. However, liquid amyl nitrite is highly toxic when ingested because of the unsafely high concentration it causes in blood. Regardless of the form or route of administration, acute toxicity principally results when the nitrite oxidizes a significant proportion of hemoglobin in the blood without oxygen, forming methemoglobin, which cannot carry oxygen. Severe poisoning cases will progress to methemoglobinemia, characterized by a blue-brown discoloration under the skin which could be mistaken for cyanosis. Treatment with oxygen and intravenous methylene blue frustrates visual confirmation further as methylene blue itself is, as its name suggests, a blue dye; the patient's changes in different shades of blue notwithstanding, it is an effective antidote by way of catalyzing the production of the enzyme responsible for reducing the methemoglobin in the blood back to hemoglobin. The discoloration does mean that regular near-infrared–based pulse oximetry becomes useless. More fundamentally, blood gas analysis on the whole has limited effectiveness, as the increased methemoglobin level increases the oxygen binding affinity of regular hemoglobin. Therefore, the measurement of actual ratios and levels of methemoglobin and hemoglobin must accompany any blood gas partial pressure sample in these cases. In popular culture Columbo episode titled "Troubled Waters" features amyl nitrite inhaled by the antagonist Hayden Danziger – played by Robert Vaughn – to help him feign a heart attack for his alibi. However, the episode consistently refers to the substance incorrectly as amyl nitrate. References Further reading Editorial on the use of the word "amyl". Antianginals Antidotes Alkyl nitrites Muscle relaxants Vasodilators
Amnon ( ’Amnōn, "faithful") was, in the Hebrew Bible, the oldest son of King David and his second wife, Ahinoam of Jezreel. He was born in Hebron during his father's reign in Judah. He was the heir apparent to the throne of Israel until he was assassinated by his half-brother Absalom to avenge the rape of Absalom's sister Tamar. Biblical account Amnon's background Amnon was born in Hebron to Ahinoam and King David. As the presumptive heir to the throne of Israel, Amnon enjoyed a life of power and privilege. Rape of Tamar Although he was the heir-apparent to David's throne, Amnon is best remembered for the rape of his half-sister Tamar, daughter of David and Maachah. Despite the biblical prohibition on sexual relations between half siblings, Amnon had an overwhelming desire for her. He acted on advice from his cousin, Jonadab son of Shimeah, David's brother, to lure Tamar into his quarters by pretending to be sick and desiring her to cook a special meal for him. While in his quarters, and over her protests, he raped her, then had her expelled from his house. While King David was angry about the incident, he could not bring himself to punish his eldest son, while Absalom, Amnon's half-brother and Tamar's full brother, nursed a bitter grudge against Amnon for the rape of his sister. According to the Babylonian Talmud: "And Thou should not associate with a sinner:.... And so we find with Amnon, who associated with Jonadab, the son of Shim'ah, David's brother; and Jonadab was a very sensible man—sensible in wickedness, as it is written [Jer. Iv .22]: Wise are they to do evil." According to others, it is meant that one shall not associate with the wicked, even to study the Torah." According to Rav, Tamar was not, by Biblical law, David's daughter, nor Amnon's sister. Tamar, was the earlier born daughter of David's wife, and thus not biologically related to David, nor Amnon. According to Michael D. Coogan's claims, however, it would have been perfectly all right for Amnon to have married his sister (he claims that the Bible was incoherent about prohibiting incest). According to the Torah, per Leviticus 18, "the children of Israel"—Israelite men and women alike—are forbidden from sexual relations between people who are "near of kin" (cf. verse 6). Siblings and half siblings (cf. verses 9 and 11). Relationships between these are particularly singled out for a curse in Deuteronomy 27, and they are of the only two kinds incestuous relationships that are among the particularly-singled-out relationships—with the other particularly-singled-out relationships, being ones of non-incestuous family betrayal (cf. verse 20) and bestiality (cf. verse 21). Incestuous relationships are considered so severe among chillul hashem, acts which bring shame to the name of God, as to be, along with the other forbidden relationships that are mentioned in Leviticus 18, punishable by death as specified in Leviticus 20. Those who committed incest were subject to two curses—one for committing incest and the second for breaking the Torah law. [27 Deuteronomy 22 and 26] and also the punishment of kareth.Amnon was said to be possibly consigned to the 2nd circle of Gehenna. Two years later, to avenge Tamar, Absalom invited all of David's sons to a feast at sheep-shearing time, then had his servants kill Amnon after he had become drunk with wine. As a result, Absalom fled to Geshur. records that in time David came to terms with the death of Amnon, his first-born. Methodist founder John Wesley is critical of David: "He can almost find in his heart to receive into favour the murderer of his brother. How can we excuse David from the sin of Eli, who honoured his sons more than God?" In rabbinic literature The sages of the Mishnah point out that Amnon's love for Tamar, his half-sister, did not arise from true affection, but from passion and lust, on which account, after having attained his desire, he immediately "hated her exceedingly." "All love which depends upon some particular thing ceases when that thing ceases; thus was the love of Amnon for Tamar" (Ab. v. 16). Amnon's love for Tamar was not, however, such a transgression as is usually supposed: for, although she was a daughter of David, her mother was a prisoner of war, who had not yet become a Jewess; consequently, Tamar also had not entered the Jewish community (Sanh. 21a). The incident of Amnon and Tamar was utilized by the sages as affording justification for their rule that a man must on no account remain alone in the company of a woman, not even of an unmarried one (Sanh. l.c. et seq.). According to the Babylonian Talmud, Amnon's hatred of Tamar was because the contact of his manhood with her hair had caused him to become a eunuch, and his death was a punishment from the Lord for his actions. Tomb Ibn Kathir, a famous Islamic historian, notes Gujrat, Pakistan to be the burial place of Amnon. Khawaja Gohor din or Hafiz Sham-ud-din Ghulyanvi first identified the tomb. Literary references The Spanish poet Federico García Lorca wrote a poem about Amnon's rape of his sister Tamar, included in Lorca's 1928 poetry collection Romancero Gitano (translated as Gypsy Ballads). Lorca's version is considerably different from the Biblical original – Amnon is depicted as being overcome by a sudden uncontrollable passion, with none of the cynical planning and premeditation of the original story. He assaults and rapes Tamar and then flees into the night on his horse, with archers shooting at him from the walls – whereupon King David cuts the strings of his harp. The Rape of Tamar, novel by Dan Jacobson () The Death of Amnon poem by Elizabeth Hands References Jewish royalty Children of David Biblical murder victims Male murder victims People executed for rape Incestual abuse Heirs apparent who never acceded Mythological rapists Incest in mythology
The Aimaq () or Chahar Aimaq (), also transliterated as Aymaq, Aimagh, Aimak and Aymak, are a collection of Sunni and mostly Persian-speaking nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes. They live mostly in the central and western highlands of Afghanistan, especially in Ghor and Badghis. Aimaqs were originally known as chahar ("four") Aymaqs: Jamshidi, Aimaq Hazara, Firozkohi and Taymani. The Timuri, which is a separate tribe but is sometimes included among Aimaqs, which is known as Aimaq-e digar ("other Aimaq"). The Aimaq speak several subdialects of the Aimaq dialect of the Persian language, but some southern groups of Taymani, Firozkohi, and northeastern Timuri Aimaqs have adopted the Pashto language. Etymology The word "Aimaq" is derived from the Turkic-Mongolic word "Oymaq" that means "tribe" and "group of tribes". Aimaq Hazara and Timuri are closest to the Turco-Mongols since they are semi-nomadic tribes and some of them live in yurts, whereas other Aimaqs live in traditional black tents. Origin The Aimaqs claim different origins based on their tribal background. Some claim to be descended from the troops of Genghis Khan. Other tribes such as the Taymani and Firozkohi claim descent from Pashtun tribes. Culture and society The Aimaq are largely nomadic to semi-nomadic goat and sheep herders. They also trade with villages and farmers during migrations for pastures for their livestock. The material culture and foodstuffs of the Aimaq include skins, carpets, milk, dairy products and more. They trade these products to settled peoples in return for vegetables, grains, fruits, nuts, and other types of foods and goods. Religion Aimaqs are largely Sunni Muslims except for the Jamshidi who are mainly Ismaili Shia in the main and in contrast to the Hazaras, who are mostly Shia Muslims. Demographics Estimates of the Aimaq population vary between 250,000 and 500,000. See also Aimaq Hazara Hazaras Qara'unas Notes References Further reading Macgregor, Central Asia, (Calcutta, 1871) External links Aimaq Man with Children, Pal-Kotal-I-Guk, Ghor Province Aimaq Nomad Camp Pal-Kotal-I-Guk Between Chakhcharan and Jam Afghanistan Aymaq Afghan nomads Iranian nomads Nomads Ethnic groups in Afghanistan Modern nomads
Alexandria is a city in Monroe Township, Madison County, Indiana, United States. It is about northeast of Indianapolis. According to the 2020 census, its population was 5,149, nearly unchanged from 2010. History Alexandria was platted in 1836, when it was certain that the Indiana Central Canal would be extended to that point. It was incorporated as a town in 1898. In 1898, Indiana's first Interurban railway line began operating between Alexandria and Anderson. Geography Alexandria is located in northern Madison County at . Indiana State Road 9 passes through the east side of the city, leading south to Anderson, the county seat, and north to Marion. State Road 28 crosses the northern tip of Alexandria, leading west to Elwood and east to Albany. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, Alexandria has a total area of , all land. Pipe Creek crosses the city south of its center, flowing southwest to join the White River at Perkinsville. Demographics Alexandria is part of the Indianapolis–Carmel–Anderson metropolitan statistical area. 2010 census As of the census of 2010, there were 5,145 people, 2,113 households, and 1,362 families living in the city. The population density was . There were 2,507 housing units at an average density of . The racial makeup of the city was 97.4% White, 0.3% African American, 0.1% Native American, 0.2% Asian, 0.8% from other races, and 1.1% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino people of any race were 1.7% of the population. Of the 2,113 households 33.6% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 42.2% were married couples living together, 15.7% had a female householder with no husband present, 6.6% had a male householder with no wife present, and 35.5% were non-families. 30.1% of households were one person and 12.8% were one person aged 65 or older. The average household size was 2.41 and the average family size was 2.95. The median age was 38.2 years. 25.6% of residents were under the age of 18; 8.8% were between the ages of 18 and 24; 24.8% were from 25 to 44; 25.1% were from 45 to 64; and 15.6% were 65 or older. The gender makeup of the city was 47.8% male and 52.2% female. 2000 census As of the census of 2000, there were 6,260 people, 2,481 households, and 1,654 families living in the city. The population density was . There were 2,704 housing units at an average density of . The racial makeup of the city was 98.10% White, 0.46% Black or African American, 0.08% Native American, 0.11% Asian, 0.02% Pacific Islander, 0.43% from other races, and 0.80% from two or more races. 0.99% of the population were Hispanic or Latino of any race. Of the 2,481 households 33.9% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 49.0% were married couples living together, 12.7% had a female householder with no husband present, and 33.3% were non-families. 28.9% of households were one person and 13.1% were one person aged 65 or older. The average household size was 2.48 and the average family size was 3.04. The age distribution was 27.8% under the age of 18, 8.9% from 18 to 24, 28.0% from 25 to 44, 19.5% from 45 to 64, and 15.9% 65 or older. The median age was 35 years. For every 100 females, there were 91.4 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 87.4 males. The median household income was $35,359 and the median family income was $42,731. Males had a median income of $30,529 versus $23,384 for females. The per capita income for the city was $15,578. About 4.2% of families and 7.0% of the population were below the poverty line, including 4.1% of those under age 18 and 15.0% of those age 65 or over. Government The city council consists of seven members. Five members are elected from individual districts, and two are elected at large. The city is governed by a "strong" mayor system that appoints two council members and/or city residents to serve at the mayor's pleasure on the board of public works and safety. The chief financial officer is the clerk-treasurer. The clerk-treasurer and mayor are full-time elected officials. Transportation Airport Alexandria Airport is a public use airport located southeast of the central business district of Alexandria. Education Alexandria Community School Corporation operates the public schools. The town has a lending library, the Alexandria-Monroe Public Library. Notable people Joey Feek, country singer Bill Gaither, gospel singer/songwriter Danny Gaither, gospel singer Gloria Gaither, author/lyricist, gospel singer Robert L. Rock, politician Gallery References External links Alexandria Monroe Chamber of Commerce Cities in Indiana Cities in Madison County, Indiana Populated places established in 1836 1836 establishments in Indiana
Alexandria Troas ("Alexandria of the Troad"; ; ) is the site of an ancient Greek city situated on the Aegean Sea near the northern tip of Turkey's western coast, the area known historically as Troad, a little south of Tenedos (modern Bozcaada). It is located southeast of modern Dalyan, a village in the Ezine district of Çanakkale Province. The site sprawls over an estimated ; among the few structures remaining today are a ruined bath, an odeon, a theatre, gymnasium complex and a recently uncovered stadion. The circuit of the old walls can still be traced. History Hellenistic According to Strabo, this site was first called Sigeia (Σιγία); around 306 BC Antigonus refounded the city as the much-expanded Antigonia Troas by settling the people of five other towns in Sigeia, including the once influential city of Neandreia. It did not receive its name until its name was changed by Lysimachus to Alexandria Troas, in 301 BC, in memory of Alexander III of Macedon (Pliny merely states, in his view, that the name changed from Antigonia to Alexandria). However, Pliny's view is not correct, because the city continued being called Alexandria Troas, and so is also stated in the 4th-5th c. AD Tabula Peutingeriana. As the chief port of north-west Asia Minor, the place prospered greatly in Roman times, becoming a "free and autonomous city" as early as 188 BC, and the existing remains sufficiently attest its former importance. In its heyday the city may have had a population of about 100,000. Strabo mentions that a Roman colony was created at the location in the reign of Augustus, named Colonia Alexandria Augusta Troas (called simply Troas during this period). Augustus, Hadrian and the rich grammarian Herodes Atticus contributed greatly to its embellishment; the aqueduct still preserved is due to the latter. Julius Caesar and Constantine considered making Troas the capital of the Roman Empire. Roman In Roman times, it was a significant port for travelling between Anatolia and Europe. According to the account in the Acts of the Apostles, Paul of Tarsus sailed for Europe for the first time from Alexandria Troas and returned there from Europe (it was there that the episode of the raising of Eutychus is said to have occurred). Ignatius of Antioch also paused at this city before continuing to his martyrdom at Rome. Byzantine Several of its later bishops are known: Marinus in 325; Niconius in 344; Sylvanus at the beginning of the 5th century; Pionius in 451; Leo in 787; Peter, friend of the Patriarch Ignatius, and adversary to Michael, in the ninth century. In the 10th century Troas is given as a suffragan of Cyzicus and distinct from the famous Troy (Heinrich Gelzer, Ungedruckte ... Texte der Notitiae episcopatuum, 552; Georgii Cyprii descriptio orbis romani, 64); it is not known when the city was destroyed and the diocese disappeared. The bishopric remains a titular see of the Catholic Church under the name Troas, vacant since 1971.<ref>Annuario Pontificio 2013 (Libreria Editrice Vaticana 2013 ), p. 997</ref> Troas is also a titular see of the Eastern Orthodox Church under the Ecumenical Patriarchate. Bishop Savas (Zembillas) of Troas served as hierarch from 2002 to 2011, and then became Metropolitan Savas (Zembillas) of Pittsburgh in the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of America. Ottoman Karasid Turkomans settled in the area of the Troad in the 14th century. Their beylik was conquered by the Ottomans in 1336. The ruins of Alexandria Troas came to be known among the Turks as Eski Stambul, the "Old City". The site's stones were much plundered for building material (for example Mehmed IV took columns to adorn his Yeni Valide Mosque in Istanbul). As of the mid-18th century the site served as "a lurking place for bandetti". Modern By 1911, the site had been overgrown with Vallonea oaks and much plundered, but the circuit of the old walls could still be traced, and in several places they were fairly well preserved. They had a circumference of about ten kilometres, and were fortified with towers at regular intervals. Remains of an ancient bath and gymnasium complex can be found within this area; this building is locally known as Bal Saray (Honey Palace) and was originally endowed by Herodes Atticus in the year 135. Trajan built an aqueduct which can still be traced. The harbour had two large basins, now almost choked with sand. It is the subject of an early twenty-first century study by German archaeologists digging and surveying at the site. Their excavation uncovered the remains of a large stadium dating to about 100 BC. See also List of ancient Greek cities References Bibliography Feuser, Stefan, Der Hafen von Alexandria Troas'' (Bonn: Dr. Rudolf Habelt, 2009) (Asia Minor Studien, 63). External links Archaeological sites in the Marmara Region Ancient Greek archaeological sites in Turkey New Testament cities Roman towns and cities in Turkey Ruins in Turkey Titular sees in Asia Troas Cities in ancient Troad Former populated places in Turkey Geography of Çanakkale Province History of Çanakkale Province (+) Populated places in ancient Troad Coloniae (Roman) Cities founded by Alexander the Great
Alexandria (, ) is a town in West Dunbartonshire, Scotland. The town is on the River Leven, north of Dumbarton and north-west of Glasgow. Demographics In 2016, the estimated population of the town was 6,860. It is one of five towns in the Vale of Leven, the others being Balloch, Bonhill, Jamestown and Renton; their combined population is over 20,000. Economy The town's traditional industries, most importantly cotton manufacturing, bleaching and printing, have been phased out. In the 1970s Alexandria was redeveloped, with a new town centre layout and traffic system. Local landmarks include Christie Park and the Category B listed Smollett Fountain in the town centre. Lomond Galleries on North Main Street is a former car factory with an impressive dome and an even more impressive marble entrance hall and staircase. It was originally built in 1906 as the Argyll Motor Works, for Argyll Motors Ltd. A carving above the entrance shows one of the company's cars. After the car production ceased in 1914, it was used by the Admiralty for the manufacture of torpedoes, which were test-fired in Loch Long, and in the early 1970s was the scene of the Plessey sit-in. The building now hosts a shopping mall but has retained many of its striking architectural features. Major employers in the area were Westclox and Polaroid, both based in the Leven Industrial Estate; Aggreko based a major purpose-built factory in the estate from 2000 to 2010. The Ballantine's whisky distillery continues to operate in the estate. Transport Alexandria sits on the former A82 main road between Glasgow and Loch Lomond. There are regular bus services on the route, and the town has a railway station on the rail line between Balloch and Glasgow Queen Street. Alexandria is reputed to be the only town in the UK with a railway station, carnival (periodically Codona’s travelling fair sets up in the car park) and a pub in the middle of a roundabout. A. J. Cronin's uncle owned a pub in Bridge Street. Alexandria Library is located on Gilmour Street. Sport The town is home to Vale of Leven football club, who play at Millburn Park. The club was a dominant force in early Scottish football history, winning the Scottish Cup in 1877, 1878 and 1879, and were founder members of the Scottish Football League. Gordon Reid, born in Alexandria, has won the Wimbledon Tennis Men's Wheelchair Doubles, with his partner Alfie Hewett, three times. ROC Bunker Between 1961 and 1991, the village was the location of a Royal Observer Corps Master bunker, to be used in the event of a nuclear attack. It remains mostly intact. Notable natives and residents Stuart David, writer and musician (Belle and Sebastian) Zander Diamond, Scottish professional footballer John Miller "Ian" McColl, Scottish footballer and manager of the Scotland national team Morgan McMichaels, Scottish-American drag queen and reality television personality Dawn O'Porter, British writer, director and television presenter References Towns in West Dunbartonshire Vale of Leven
Alexandria () is the capital city of the Teleorman County, Muntenia, Romania. It is located south-west of Bucharest, towards the Bulgarian border, and has over 40,000 inhabitants. The 44th parallel north passes just north of the city. Geography Alexandria is situated in the middle of the Wallachian Plain, on the banks of the Vedea River. It is located in the central part of Teleorman County, at a distance of from Giurgiu and from Bucharest. The city is traversed by the national road DN6, which links Bucharest to the Banat region in western Romania; the road is part of European route E70. The Alexandria train station serves the CFR Line 909, with service towards Roșiorii de Vede (to the northwest) and Zimnicea (to the south, on the Danube). History Alexandria was named after its founder, Alexandru D. Ghica, Prince of Wallachia from April 1834 to 7 October 1842. Its population in 1900 was 1,675. Grain, which was Alexandria's main trade at the time, was dispatched both by rail to the Danubian port of Zimnicea and by river to Giurgiu. In 1989, the city had over 63,000 inhabitants and more than six large factories. The 2021 census puts the population at 40,390. Education There are three high schools in Alexandria: the Alexandru D. Ghica National College, the Alexandru Ioan Cuza Theoretical High School, and the Constantin Noica Theoretical High School. In 1897, the Ștefan cel Mare School moved from its former location to 310 Libertății Street; a local entrepreneur, M. Frangulea, obtained the plot and hired renowned architect Alexandru Săvulescu to build the new boys' primary school for the city. Religion The Diocese of Alexandria and Teleorman is a diocese of the Romanian Orthodox Church. Its see is in Alexandria and its ecclesiastical territory covers Teleorman County. Sports CSM Alexandria is a football club founded in 1948; it plays in the Romanian Liga III. CS Universitatea Alexandria is a women's football club founded in 2012. Stadionul Municipal, which holds 5,000 people, is the home ground for both clubs; the stadium is currently undergoing reconstruction. The Alexandria women's basketball team plays in the Liga Națională. Natives Valentin Badea (b. 1982), footballer Dan Balauru (b. 1980), footballer (b. 1966), fashion creator (1899–1976), mayor, lawyer, writer Anghel Demetriescu (1847–1903), historian Gheorghe Mihăilescu (1888–?), World War I pilot Ciprian Manolescu (b. 1978), mathematician Andreea Ogrăzeanu (b. 1990), sprinter Florin Olteanu (b. 1981), footballer Sorin Paraschiv (b. 1981), footballer Alin Pencea (b. 1992), footballer Marin Stan (b. 1950), sports shooter Alina Tecșor (b. 1979), tennis player Alin Toșca (b. 1992), footballer Daniel Tudor (b. 1974), footballer Ionuț Voicu (b. 1984), footballer Gallery References External links Cities in Romania Capitals of Romanian counties Planned communities in Romania Populated places in Teleorman County Localities in Muntenia
Angela Vincent (born 1942) is Emeritus professor at the University of Oxford and a Fellow of Somerville College, Oxford. Career and research Angela Vincent was born in 1942, the third child of Carmen and Joseph Molony (later KCVO). After St Mary's Convent, Ascot, she studied medicine at King's College London and Westminster Hospital School of Medicine (now merged with Imperial College School of Medicine). After one year as a junior doctor at St Steven's and St Charles' hospitals in London (1966–1967), she obtained an MSc in biochemistry from University College London. In 1967 she married Philip Morse Vincent and they have four children. After the MSc, she spent three frustrating years trying to fractionate rat brain synaptosomes, until she was taken on by Ricardo Miledi FRS in the biophysics department to work on acetylcholine receptors. During her five years with Miledi, her medical background helped to establish a collaboration on myasthenia gravis with John Newsom-Davis (later FRS); together at the Royal Free Hospital, London, they created a neuroimmunology group that subsequently moved with Newsom-Davis to Oxford when he was appointed action research professor of neurology. After his retirement in 1998, Vincent led the group until 2016. During this time she was head of the department of clinical neurology (2005–2008) at the University of Oxford, president of the International Society of Neuroimmunology (2001–2004), and an associate editor of Brain (2004–2013). Her research group was initially located in the Weatherall Institute of Molecular Medicine at the John Radcliffe Hospital, working on a wide range of biological disciplines encompassing molecular biology, biochemistry, cellular immunology and intracellular neurophysiology. The group's research focused on autoimmune and genetic disorders of the neuromuscular junction, peripheral nerves and more recently the exciting field of central nervous system diseases. The principal autoimmune diseases studied were myasthenia gravis, the Lambert–Eaton myasthenic syndrome, limbic encephalitis, other types of autoimmune encephalitis and acquired neuromyotonia. Her contributions have been on the roles of antibodies directed against acetylcholine receptors and muscle specific kinase (MuSK) in myasthenia gravis, and glycine receptors or potassium channel-associated proteins LGI1, CASPR2 and Contactin-2 in CNS diseases. She demonstrated that transfer of antibodies across the placenta from the pregnant woman to the fetus in utero can cause both acute and longer-term neuromuscular and neurodevelopmental abnormalities. Since 2016 she has been Emeritus Professor at Oxford University, Emeritus Fellow of Somerville College, and holds an honorary appointment at UCL; she continues to work on neuromuscular disorders and advise young researchers. Her work in Oxford on brain disorders continues under Associate Professor Sarosh Irani and Dr Patrick Waters. She is a strong supporter of Freedom from Torture (formerly The Medical Foundation for Treatment of Torture Victims) and a Patron of British Pugwash (that brings together scientists and others concerned with international affairs and disarmament). Awards and honours In 2009, she presented the Leslie Oliver Oration at Queen's Hospital. In 2009, she received the medal of the Association of British Neurologists and in 2017, the World Federation of Neurology Scientific Contributions to Neurology award. In 2015, she was awarded the British Neuroscience Association Award for Outstanding Contribution to Neuroscience. In Cologne 2018, she was awarded with J Posner and J Dalmau, the International Prize for Translational Neuroscience of the Gertrud Reemtsma Foundation (formerly the Klaus Joachim Zülch Prize), and in Washington in 2019, the America Epilepsy Society Clinical Science Research Award (with J Dalmau).Retrieved June 26, 2021, from https://www.ndcn.ox.ac.uk/team/angela-vincent</ref> She received the Inaugural Distinguished Alumni Award, Imperial College, London, 2020 and the Life-time Award of the German Neurological Society (DGN)in 2021. In 2002, she was elected a Fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences (FMedSci) and in 2011, a Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS). References 1942 births 20th-century British biologists 20th-century British women scientists 21st-century British biologists 21st-century British women scientists British women biologists British women neuroscientists English neuroscientists Fellows of Somerville College, Oxford Fellows of the Royal Society Female Fellows of the Royal Society Living people
In mathematics, the arithmetic–geometric mean of two positive real numbers and is the mutual limit of a sequence of arithmetic means and a sequence of geometric means: Begin the sequences with x and y: Then define the two interdependent sequences and as These two sequences converge to the same number, the arithmetic–geometric mean of and ; it is denoted by , or sometimes by or . The arithmetic–geometric mean is used in fast algorithms for exponential and trigonometric functions, as well as some mathematical constants, in particular, computing . The arithmetic–geometric mean can be extended to complex numbers and when the branches of the square root are allowed to be taken inconsistently, it is, in general, a multivalued function. Example To find the arithmetic–geometric mean of and , iterate as follows: The first five iterations give the following values: The number of digits in which and agree (underlined) approximately doubles with each iteration. The arithmetic–geometric mean of 24 and 6 is the common limit of these two sequences, which is approximately . History The first algorithm based on this sequence pair appeared in the works of Lagrange. Its properties were further analyzed by Gauss. Properties The geometric mean of two positive numbers is never bigger than the arithmetic mean (see inequality of arithmetic and geometric means). As a consequence, for , is an increasing sequence, is a decreasing sequence, and . These are strict inequalities if . is thus a number between the geometric and arithmetic mean of and ; it is also between and . If , then . There is an integral-form expression for : where is the complete elliptic integral of the first kind: Indeed, since the arithmetic–geometric process converges so quickly, it provides an efficient way to compute elliptic integrals via this formula. In engineering, it is used for instance in elliptic filter design. The arithmetic–geometric mean is connected to the Jacobi theta function by which upon setting gives Related concepts The reciprocal of the arithmetic–geometric mean of 1 and the square root of 2 is called Gauss's constant, after Carl Friedrich Gauss. In 1799, Gauss proved that where is the lemniscate constant. In 1941, (and hence ) was proven transcendental by Theodor Schneider. The set is algebraically independent over , but the set (where the prime denotes the derivative with respect to the second variable) is not algebraically independent over . In fact, The geometric–harmonic mean can be calculated by an analogous method, using sequences of geometric and harmonic means. One finds that . The arithmetic–harmonic mean can be similarly defined, but takes the same value as the geometric mean (see section "Calculation" there). The arithmetic–geometric mean can be used to compute – among others – logarithms, complete and incomplete elliptic integrals of the first and second kind, and Jacobi elliptic functions. Proof of existence From the inequality of arithmetic and geometric means we can conclude that: and thus that is, the sequence is nondecreasing. Furthermore, it is easy to see that it is also bounded above by the larger of and (which follows from the fact that both the arithmetic and geometric means of two numbers lie between them). Thus, by the monotone convergence theorem, the sequence is convergent, so there exists a such that: However, we can also see that: and so: Q.E.D. Proof of the integral-form expression This proof is given by Gauss. Let Changing the variable of integration to , where gives Thus, we have The last equality comes from observing that . Finally, we obtain the desired result Applications The number π For example, according to the Gauss–Legendre algorithm: where with and , which can be computed without loss of precision using Complete elliptic integral K(sinα) Taking and yields the AGM where is a complete elliptic integral of the first kind: That is to say that this quarter period may be efficiently computed through the AGM, Other applications Using this property of the AGM along with the ascending transformations of John Landen, Richard P. Brent suggested the first AGM algorithms for the fast evaluation of elementary transcendental functions (, , ). Subsequently, many authors went on to study the use of the AGM algorithms. See also Landen's transformation Gauss–Legendre algorithm Generalized mean References Notes Citations Sources Means Special functions Elliptic functions Articles containing proofs
Epsilon Ursae Majoris is a star in the northern constellation of Ursa Major. The designation is Latinised from ε Ursae Majoris and abbreviated Epsilon UMa or ε UMa. It is officially named Alioth . Despite being designated "ε" (epsilon), it is the brightest star in the constellation and at magnitude 1.77 is the thirty-third brightest star in the sky. It is the star in the tail of the bear closest to its body, and thus the star in the handle of the Big Dipper (or Plough) closest to the bowl. It is also a member of the large and diffuse Ursa Major moving group. Historically, the star was frequently used in celestial navigation in the maritime trade, because it is listed as one of the 57 navigational stars. Physical characteristics According to Hipparcos, Epsilon Ursae Majoris is from the Sun. Its spectral type is A1p; the "p" stands for peculiar, as its spectrum is characteristic of an α2 Canum Venaticorum variable. Epsilon Ursae Majoris, as a representative of this type, may harbor two interacting processes. First, the star's strong magnetic field separating different elements in the star's hydrogen 'fuel'. In addition, a rotation axis at an angle to the magnetic axis may be spinning different bands of magnetically sorted elements into the line of sight between Epsilon Ursae Majoris and the Earth. The intervening elements react differently at different frequencies of light as they whip in and out of view, causing Epsilon Ursae Majoris to have very strange spectral lines that fluctuate over a period of 5.1 days. The kB9 suffix to the spectral type indicates that the calcium K line is present and representative of a B9 spectral type even though the rest of the spectrum indicates A1. Epsilon Ursae Majoris's rotational and magnetic poles are at almost 90 degrees to one another. Darker (denser) regions of chromium form a band at right angles to the equator. It has long been suspected that Epsilon Ursae Majoris is a spectroscopic binary, possibly with more than one companion. A more recent study suggests Epsilon Ursae Majoris's 5.1-day variation may be due to a substellar object of about 14.7 Jupiter masses in an eccentric orbit (e=0.5) with an average separation of 0.055 astronomical units. It is now thought that the 5.1-day period is the rotation period of the star, and no companions have been detected using the most modern equipment. Epsilon Ursae Majoris has a relatively weak magnetic field, 15 times weaker than α Canum Venaticorum, but it is still 100 times stronger than that of the Earth. Name and etymology ε Ursae Majoris (Latinised to Epsilon Ursae Majoris) is the star's Bayer designation. The traditional name Alioth comes from the Arabic alyat al-hamal ("the sheep's fat tail"). In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalog and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN's first bulletin of July 2016 included a table of the first two batches of names approved by the WGSN; which included Alioth for this star. This star was known to the Hindus as Añgiras, one of the Seven Rishis. In Chinese, (), meaning Northern Dipper, refers to an asterism equivalent to the Big Dipper. Consequently, the Chinese name for Epsilon Ursae Majoris itself is (, ) and (, ). Namesakes The United States Navy's Crater class cargo ship was named after the star. See also List of brightest stars List of nearest bright stars Lists of stars Historical brightest stars References Alpha2 Canum Venaticorum variables Ap stars A-type giants Ursa Major moving group Big Dipper Ursa Major Ursae Majoris, Epsilon 4905 BD+56 1627 Ursae Majoris, 77 112185 062956 Alioth
Aga or AGA may refer to: Business Architectural Glass and Aluminum (AGA), a glazing contractor, established in 1970 AGA (automobile), Autogen Gasaccumulator AG, 1920s German car company AGA AB, Aktiebolaget Svenska Gasaccumulator, a Swedish company, the originator of the AGA Cooker Aga Rangemaster Group, British manufacturer AGA cooker, an oven and cooker Abellio Greater Anglia, former name of Greater Anglia, a train company in the United Kingdom People Aga Khan (disambiguation) Ağa (Ottoman Empire), an Ottoman Turkish military and administrative rank Alejandro G. Abadilla (1906–1969), Filipino poet Aga vom Hagen (1872-1949), German painter, author, and art patron Aga Radwańska, Polish tennis player AGA (singer), Hong Kong singer Given name Aga of Kish, Ensi of Kish and King of Sumer Ağa Aşurov (1880–1936), Azerbaijani statesman Aga Muhlach (born 1969), Filipino actor and producer Aga Zaryan (born 1976), Polish vocalist Aga, a diminutive of the Russian female first name Agafa Aga, a diminutive of the Russian male first name Agafangel Aga, a diminutive of the Russian male first name Agafodor Aga, a diminutive of the Russian male first name Agafon Aga, a diminutive of the Russian male first name Agafonik Aga, a diminutive of the Russian female first name Agafonika Aga, a diminutive of the Russian male first name Agap Aga, a diminutive of the Russian female first name Agapa Aga, a diminutive of the Russian male first name Agapit Aga, a diminutive of the Russian female first name Agapiya Aga, a diminutive of the Russian female first name Agata (a variant of Agatha) Aga, a diminutive of the Russian male first name Agav Aga, a diminutive of the Russian male first name Agavva Aga, a diminutive of the Russian female first name Avgusta Surname Ağa, a Turkish surname Alemu Aga (born 1950), Ethiopian musician Anu Aga (born 1942), Indian businesswoman Maria-Laura Aga (born 1994), Belgian footballer Patrick Aga, Nigerian politician Ragheb Aga (born 1984), Kenyan cricketer Selim Aga (–1875), Sudanese writer Groups American Gaming Association American Gas Association American Gastroenterological Association American Go Association, organization to promote the board game of Go American Grandprix Association Assemblies of God in Australia, a Pentecostal denomination Association of Government Accountants, government accounting professional organization that issues the Certified Government Financial Manager Australian Go Association, governing body for the board game Go Medicine Androgenetic alopecia Anti-gliadin antibodies Aspartylglucosaminidase Appropriate for gestational age, referring to prenatal growth rate Places Aga, Egypt Aga, Niigata, Japan Aga Point, Guam Al Massira Airport, Agadir, Morocco Brestovăț, Timiș County, Romania, called in Hungarian Monte Aga, mountain in Italy Aga (river), a tributary of the Onon in Zabaykalsky Krai, Russia Other Aga (bird), Chamorro language name of Corvus kubaryi, the Mariana crow Aga (bug), a genus of assassin bugs in the tribe Harpactorini Ága (film), a 2018 Bulgarian film Aga is the word for Karuka in the Kewa language Aga saga Aguano language Alcohol and Gaming Authority, government body in Nova Scotia, Canada Alte Gesamt-Ausgabe, 19th century publication of compositions by Franz Schubert Amiga Advanced Graphics Architecture, a Commodore Amiga graphics chipset Art Gallery of Alberta, an art museum in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada AGA, a codon for the amino acid arginine Attorney General of Alabama Attorney General of Alaska Attorney General of Alberta Attorney General of Anguilla Attorney General of Argentina Attorney General of Arizona Attorney General of Arkansas Attorney-General of Australia Auditor-General for Australia See also Agga (disambiguation) Aegea Agha (disambiguation)
Andersonville is a city in Sumter County, Georgia, United States. As of the 2020 census, the city had a population of 237. It is located in the southwest part of the state, approximately southwest of Macon on the Central of Georgia railroad. During the American Civil War, it was the site of a prisoner-of-war camp, which is now Andersonville National Historic Site. Andersonville is part of the Americus Micropolitan Statistical Area. History The hamlet of Anderson was named for John Anderson, a director of the South Western Railroad in 1853 when it was extended from Oglethorpe to Americus. It was known as Anderson Station until the US post office was established in November 1855. The government changed the name of the station from "Anderson" to "Andersonville" in order to avoid confusion with the post office in Anderson, South Carolina. During the Civil War, the Confederate army established Camp Sumter at Andersonville to house incoming Union prisoners of war. The overcrowded Andersonville Prison was notorious for its bad conditions, and nearly 13,000 prisoners died there. After the war, Henry Wirz was convicted for war crimes related to the command of the camp. His trial was later regarded as unfair by several groups, and a monument in his honor has been erected in Andersonville by the United Daughters of the Confederacy. The town also served as a supply depot during the war period. It included a post office, a depot, a blacksmith shop and stable, a couple of general stores, two saloons, a school, a Methodist church, and about a dozen houses. Ben Dykes, who owned the land on which the prison was built, was both depot agent and postmaster. Until the establishment of the prison, the area was entirely dependent on agriculture, supported by dark reddish brown sandy loams later mapped as Greenville and Red Bay soil series. After the close of the prison and end of the war, the town continued economically dependent on agriculture, primarily the cultivation of cotton as a commodity crop. It was not until 1968, when the large-scale mining of kaolin, bauxitic kaolin, and bauxite was begun by Mulcoa, Mullite Company of America, that the town was dramatically altered. This operation exploited of scrub oak wilderness into a massive mining and refining operation. The company now ships more than 2000 tons of refined ore from Andersonville each week. In 1974, long-time mayor Lewis Easterlin and a group of concerned citizens decided to promote tourism in the town, redeveloping Main Street to look much as it did during the American Civil War. The city of Andersonville and the Andersonville National Historic Site, location of the prison camp, are now tourist attractions. Geography Climate Demographics As of the census of 2000, there were 331 people, 124 households, and 86 families residing in the city. The population density was . There were 142 housing units at an average density of . The racial makeup of the city was 65.26% White and 34.74% African American. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1.21% of the population. There were 124 households, out of which 34.7% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 46.0% were married couples living together, 17.7% had a female householder with no husband present, and 30.6% were non-families. 26.6% of all households were made up of individuals, and 10.5% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.67 and the average family size was 3.21. In the city, the population was spread out, with 27.8% under the age of 18, 9.4% from 18 to 24, 31.4% from 25 to 44, 19.3% from 45 to 64, and 12.1% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 36 years. For every 100 females, there were 105.6 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 97.5 males. The median income for a household in the city was $29,107, and the median income for a family was $30,972. Males had a median income of $26,591 versus $20,000 for females. The per capita income for the city was $15,168. About 19.8% of families and 23.0% of the population were below the poverty line, including 29.3% of those under age 18 and 13.5% of those age 65 or over. References External links City website Cities in Georgia (U.S. state) Cities in Sumter County, Georgia
Andersonville may refer to: Places United States Andersonville, Georgia, site of an American Civil War prisoner of war camp Andersonville Prison, Confederate prisoner of war camp in Georgia holding Union soldiers Andersonville, Chicago, a neighborhood in Chicago, Illinois Andersonville Commercial Historic District, an historic district in Chicago Andersonville, Iowa Andersonville, Indiana Andersonville, Michigan Andersonville, Ohio, an unincorporated community Andersonville, South Carolina Andersonville, Tennessee Andersonville, Virginia Andersonville, West Virginia Elsewhere Andersonville, New Brunswick, Canada Other uses Andersonville (novel), Pulitzer Prize–winning 1956 novel by MacKinlay Kantor Andersonville (film), 1996 film based on a prisoner of war camp prisoner's diary Andersonville Theological Seminary, Camilla, Georgia, U.S. "Andersonville", a song by Dave Alvin from his 1991 album Blue Blvd See also The Andersonville Trial, 1970 film
The Agra Canal is an important Indian irrigation work which starts from Okhla in Delhi. The Agra canal originates at the Okhla barrage, downstream of Nizamuddin bridge. The canal receives its water from the Yamuna River at Okhla, about to the south of New Delhi. The weir across the Yamuna was constructed of locally quarried stone. It was about long, and rises seven feet above the summer level of the river. From Okhla the canal follows a route south then southeast for in the high land between the Khari-Nadi and the Yamuna and finally joins the Utanga River about below Agra. Navigable branches connect the canal with Mathura and Agra. The canal irrigates about in Agra, and Mathura in Uttar Pradesh, Faridabad in Haryana, Bharatpur in Rajasthan and also some parts of Delhi. History The canal opened in the year 1874. In the beginning, it was available for navigation, in Delhi, erstwhile Gurgaon, Mathura and Agra Districts, and Bharatpur State. Later, navigation was stopped in 1904 and the canal has, since then, been exclusively used for irrigation purposes only. At present, the canal does not flow in Gurgaon district, but only in Faridabad, which was earlier a part of Gurgaon. In recent times, Agra canal is an important landmark which separates Greater Faridabad from Faridabad. References Canals in Uttar Pradesh Agra district Yamuna River Buildings and structures in Delhi Canals in Rajasthan Canals opened in 1874 Canals in Haryana
, which means "Heaven's Grass," is a series of islands off the west coast of Kyushu, the southernmost of the four main islands of Japan. Geography The largest island of the Amakusa group is Shimoshima, which is 26.5 miles long and 13.5 miles at its widest (). It is situated at 32°20'N, 130°E, separated from the rest of Kumamoto Prefecture by the Yatsushiro Sea. While lacking high mountains with only four peaks surpassing , the island terrain is ruggedly hilly. To cope with the lack of flat arable land, farming is carried out on a terrace system of cultivation. History Amakusa, along with the neighboring Shimabara Peninsula, became the site of the Shimabara rebellion in the 17th century, led by Christians. Following the rebellion, Kakure Kirishitan, the Christians who had survived, continued to practice their faith in secret, despite severe persecution. Economy Amakusa produces a little coal and pottery stone, both being used by the potters of Hirado ware and Satsuma ware. Many kilns remain on the islands today, and pottery and pottery stone are still exported. Amakusa pottery has been recognised by the government. The retail company Muji brought out its own line of Hakuji home ware, which is produced out of ground translucent Amakusa stones kneaded into clay, using traditional techniques. People Hidenoshin Koyama, who built Thomas Blake Glover's House in Glover Garden, came from this island. Kenta and Ko-shin, two of the three members of Wanima come from the island of Amakusa. Government At present, the islands are organized as Amakusa District, Amakusa City, and Kami-amakusa City, all of which are under the administration of Kumamoto Prefecture. Transport The islands are served by Amakusa Airfield, located on the north end of Shimoshima. The islands are connected to the mainland by the Five Bridges of Amakusa and by ferry from Hondo and Matsushima. There are also ferries between the islands and the neighboring prefectures of Kagoshima Prefecture and Nagasaki Prefecture. The ferry from Oniike on the north Shimoshima to Kuchinotsu, at the southern tip of the Shimabara Peninsula, is run by the Shimabara Railway and operates hourly each day. The ferry boat from Tomioka Port in Reihoku, sailing north to Mogi in Nagasaki Prefecture, is operated by Yasuda Sangyo Kisen Co. Ltd. Two ferries from Shinwa and Ushibuka, in the south of Shimoshima, connect Amakusa to Nagashima in Kagoshima Prefecture. References Sources Islands of Kumamoto Prefecture Islands of the East China Sea
An afterglow in meteorology consists of several atmospheric optical phenomena, with a general definition as a broad arch of whitish or pinkish sunlight in the twilight sky, consisting of the bright segment and the purple light. Purple light mainly occurs when the Sun is 2–6° below the horizon, from civil to nautical twilight, while the bright segment lasts until the end of the nautical twilight. Afterglow is often in cases of volcanic eruptions discussed, while its purple light is discussed as a different particular volcanic purple light. Specifically in volcanic occurrences it is light scattered by fine particulates, like dust, suspended in the atmosphere. In the case of alpenglow, which is similar to the Belt of Venus, afterglow is used in general for the golden-red glowing light from the sunset and sunrise reflected in the sky, and in particularly for its last stage, when the purple light is reflected. The opposite of an afterglow is a foreglow, which occurs before sunrise. Sunlight reaches Earth around civil twilight during golden hour intensely in its low-energy and low-frequency red component. During this part of civil twilight after sunset and before sundawn the red sunlight remains visible by scattering through particles in the air. Backscattering, possibly after being reflected off clouds or high snowfields in mountain regions, furthermore creates a reddish to pinkish light. The high-energy and high-frequency components of light towards blue are scattered out broadly, producing the broader blue light of nautical twilight before or after the reddish light of civil twilight, while in combination with the reddish light producing the purple light. This period of blue dominating is referred to as the blue hour and is, like the golden hour, widely treasured by photographers and painters. After the 1883 eruption of the volcano Krakatoa, a remarkable series of red sunsets appeared worldwide. An enormous amount of exceedingly fine dust were blown to a great height by the volcano's explosion, and then globally diffused by the high atmospheric winds. Edvard Munch's painting The Scream possibly depicts an afterglow during this period. See also Airglow Belt of Venus Earth's shadow Gegenschein Red sky at morning Sunset References External links Atmospheric optical phenomena es:Arrebol fi:Purppuravalo
Ammonius Grammaticus (; ) was a 4th-century Egyptian priest. In 391, he was involved in a violent revolt centred at Alexandria's Serapeum, where the pagan rebels tortured and killed captured Christians. After the suppression of the revolt and the destruction of the temple, Ammonius fled to Constantinople, where he became the tutor of the ecclesiastical historian Socrates. Ammonius was formerly identified as the author of a treatise titled Peri homoíōn kai diaphórōn léxeōn (περὶ ὁμοίων καὶ διαφόρων λέξεων, On the Differences of Synonymous Expressions). But it seems more probable that the real author was Herennius Philo of Byblus, who was born during the reign of Nero and lived till the reign of Hadrian, and that the treatise in its present form is a revision prepared by a later Byzantine editor, whose name may have been Ammonius. References Attribution: Ancient Greek grammarians
In mathematics, particularly abstract algebra, an algebraic closure of a field K is an algebraic extension of K that is algebraically closed. It is one of many closures in mathematics. Using Zorn's lemma or the weaker ultrafilter lemma, it can be shown that every field has an algebraic closure, and that the algebraic closure of a field K is unique up to an isomorphism that fixes every member of K. Because of this essential uniqueness, we often speak of the algebraic closure of K, rather than an algebraic closure of K. The algebraic closure of a field K can be thought of as the largest algebraic extension of K. To see this, note that if L is any algebraic extension of K, then the algebraic closure of L is also an algebraic closure of K, and so L is contained within the algebraic closure of K. The algebraic closure of K is also the smallest algebraically closed field containing K, because if M is any algebraically closed field containing K, then the elements of M that are algebraic over K form an algebraic closure of K. The algebraic closure of a field K has the same cardinality as K if K is infinite, and is countably infinite if K is finite. Examples The fundamental theorem of algebra states that the algebraic closure of the field of real numbers is the field of complex numbers. The algebraic closure of the field of rational numbers is the field of algebraic numbers. There are many countable algebraically closed fields within the complex numbers, and strictly containing the field of algebraic numbers; these are the algebraic closures of transcendental extensions of the rational numbers, e.g. the algebraic closure of Q(π). For a finite field of prime power order q, the algebraic closure is a countably infinite field that contains a copy of the field of order qn for each positive integer n (and is in fact the union of these copies). Existence of an algebraic closure and splitting fields Let be the set of all monic irreducible polynomials in K[x]. For each , introduce new variables where . Let R be the polynomial ring over K generated by for all and all . Write with . Let I be the ideal in R generated by the . Since I is strictly smaller than R, Zorn's lemma implies that there exists a maximal ideal M in R that contains I. The field K1=R/M has the property that every polynomial with coefficients in K splits as the product of and hence has all roots in K1. In the same way, an extension K2 of K1 can be constructed, etc. The union of all these extensions is the algebraic closure of K, because any polynomial with coefficients in this new field has its coefficients in some Kn with sufficiently large n, and then its roots are in Kn+1, and hence in the union itself. It can be shown along the same lines that for any subset S of K[x], there exists a splitting field of S over K. Separable closure An algebraic closure Kalg of K contains a unique separable extension Ksep of K containing all (algebraic) separable extensions of K within Kalg. This subextension is called a separable closure of K. Since a separable extension of a separable extension is again separable, there are no finite separable extensions of Ksep, of degree > 1. Saying this another way, K is contained in a separably-closed algebraic extension field. It is unique (up to isomorphism). The separable closure is the full algebraic closure if and only if K is a perfect field. For example, if K is a field of characteristic p and if X is transcendental over K, is a non-separable algebraic field extension. In general, the absolute Galois group of K is the Galois group of Ksep over K. See also Algebraically closed field Algebraic extension Puiseux expansion Complete field References Field extensions
Advanced power management (APM) is a technical standard for power management developed by Intel and Microsoft and released in 1992 which enables an operating system running an IBM-compatible personal computer to work with the BIOS (part of the computer's firmware) to achieve power management. Revision 1.2 was the last version of the APM specification, released in 1996. ACPI is the successor to APM. Microsoft dropped support for APM in Windows Vista. The Linux kernel still mostly supports APM, though support for APM CPU idle was dropped in version 3.0. Overview APM uses a layered approach to manage devices. APM-aware applications (which include device drivers) talk to an OS-specific APM driver. This driver communicates to the APM-aware BIOS, which controls the hardware. There is the ability to opt out of APM control on a device-by-device basis, which can be used if a driver wants to communicate directly with a hardware device. Communication occurs both ways; power management events are sent from the BIOS to the APM driver, and the APM driver sends information and requests to the BIOS via function calls. In this way the APM driver is an intermediary between the BIOS and the operating system. Power management happens in two ways; through the above-mentioned function calls from the APM driver to the BIOS requesting power state changes, and automatically based on device activity. In APM 1.0 and APM 1.1, power management is almost fully controlled by the BIOS. In APM 1.2, the operating system can control PM time (e.g. suspend timeout). Power management events There are 12 power events (such as standby, suspend and resume requests, and low battery notifications), plus OEM-defined events, that can be sent from the APM BIOS to the operating system. The APM driver regularly polls for event change notifications. Power Management Events: APM functions There are 21 APM function calls defined that the APM driver can use to query power management statuses, or request power state transitions. Example function calls include letting the BIOS know about current CPU usage (the BIOS may respond to such a call by placing the CPU in a low-power state, or returning it to its full-power state), retrieving the current power state of a device, or requesting a power state change. Power states The APM specification defines system power states and device power states. System power states APM defines five power states for the computer system: Full On: The computer is powered on, and no devices are in a power saving mode. APM Enabled: The computer is powered on, and APM is controlling device power management as needed. APM Standby: Most devices are in their low-power state, the CPU is slowed or stopped, and the system state is saved. The computer can be returned to its former state quickly (in response to activity such as the user pressing a key on the keyboard). APM Suspend: Most devices are powered off, but the system state is saved. The computer can be returned to its former state, but takes a relatively long time. (Hibernation is a special form of the APM Suspend state). Off: The computer is turned off. Device power states APM also defines power states that APM-aware hardware can implement. There is no requirement that an APM-aware device implement all states. The four states are: Device On: The device is in full power mode. Device Power Managed: The device is still powered on, but some functions may not be available, or may have reduced performance. Device Low Power: The device is not working. Power is maintained so that the device may be 'woken up'. Device Off: The device is powered off. Hardware components CPU The CPU core (defined in APM as the CPU clock, cache, system bus and system timers) is treated specially in APM, as it is the last device to be powered down, and the first device to be powered back up. The CPU core is always controlled through the APM BIOS (there is no option to control it through a driver). Drivers can use APM function calls to notify the BIOS about CPU usage, but it is up to the BIOS to act on this information; a driver cannot directly tell the CPU to go into a power saving state. ATA drives The ATA specification and SATA specification defines APM provisions for hard drives, which specifies a trade-off between spin-down frequency and always-on performance. Unlike the BIOS-side APM, the ATA APM and SATA APM has never been deprecated. Aggressive spin-down frequencies may reduce drive lifespan by unnecessarily accumulating load cycles; most modern drives are specified to sustain 300,000 cycles and usually last at least 600,000. On the other hand, not spinning down the drive will cause extra power draw and heat generation; high temperatures also reduce the lifespan of hard drives. See also Active State Power Management - hardware power management protocol for PCI Express Green computing BatteryMAX References External links BIOS
Antoine-Joseph "Adolphe" Sax (; 6 November 1814 – 7 February 1894) was a Belgian inventor and musician who invented the saxophone in the early 1840s, patenting it in 1846. He also invented the saxotromba, saxhorn and saxtuba. He played the flute and clarinet. Early life Antoine-Joseph Sax was born on 6 November 1814 in Dinant, in what is now Belgium, to Charles-Joseph Sax and his wife Marie-Joseph (Masson). While his given name was Antoine-Joseph, he was referred to as Adolphe from childhood. His father and mother were instrument designers themselves, who made several changes to the design of the French horn. Adolphe began to make his own instruments at an early age, entering two of his flutes and a clarinet into a competition at the age of 15. He subsequently studied performance on those two instruments as well as voice at the Royal Conservatory of Brussels. Sax faced many brushes with death. As a child, he once fell from a height of three floors, hit his head on a stone and was believed dead. At the age of three, he drank a bowl full of acidic water, mistaking it for milk, and later swallowed a pin. He received serious burns from a gunpowder explosion and once fell onto a hot cast-iron frying pan, burning his side. Several times he avoided accidental poisoning and asphyxiation from sleeping in a room where varnished furniture was drying. Another time young Sax was struck on the head by a cobblestone and fell into a river, almost dying. His mother once said that "he's a child condemned to misfortune; he won't live". His neighbors called him "little Sax, the ghost". Career and later life After leaving the Royal Conservatory of Brussels, Sax began to experiment with new instrument designs, while his parents continued their business of making conventional instruments. Sax's first important invention was an improvement in bass clarinet design, which he patented at the age of 24. He relocated permanently to Paris in 1842 and began working on a new set of valved bugles. While he did not invent this instrument, his examples were much more successful than those of his rivals and became known as saxhorns. Hector Berlioz was so enamoured of these that he arranged in February 1844 for one of his pieces to be played entirely on saxhorns. They were made in seven different sizes and paved the way for the creation of the flugelhorn. Today saxhorns are sometimes used in concert bands, marching bands, and orchestras. The saxhorn also laid the groundwork for the modern euphonium. Sax also developed the saxotromba family, valved brass instruments with narrower bore than the saxhorns, in 1845, though they survived only briefly. The use of saxhorns spread rapidly. The saxhorn valves were accepted as state-of-the-art in their time and remain largely unchanged today. The advances made by Adolphe Sax were soon followed by the British brass band movement, which exclusively adopted the saxhorn family of instruments. A decade after saxhorns became available, the Jedforest Instrumental Band (1854) and The Hawick Saxhorn Band (1855) were formed in the Scottish Borders. The period around 1840 saw Sax inventing the , an early unsuccessful design of contrabass clarinet. On 28 June 1846 he patented the saxophone, intended for use in orchestras and military bands. By 1846 Sax had designed saxophones ranging from sopranino to subcontrabass, although not all were built. Composer Hector Berlioz wrote approvingly of the new instrument in 1842, but despite his support, saxophones did not become a standard part of the orchestra. Their ability to play technical passages easily like woodwinds yet project loudly like brass instruments led to their inclusion in military bands in France and elsewhere. Sax's reputation helped secure him a job teaching at the Paris Conservatory in 1857. He continued to make instruments later in life and presided over the new saxophone course at the Paris Conservatory. Legal troubles involving patents continued for over 20 years, with rival instrument makers attacking the legitimacy of his patents and Sax suing them for patent infringement. He was driven into bankruptcy three times: in 1852, 1873 and 1877. Sax suffered from lip cancer between 1853 and 1858 but made a full recovery. In 1894 he died of pneumonia in Paris, in poverty, and was interred in section 5 (Avenue de Montebello) at the Cimetière de Montmartre in Paris. Honors and awards In his birthplace Dinant in Belgium the Mr Sax's House is dedicated to his life and saxophones. 1849: Awarded the Chevalier rank of the Legion of Honour. 1867: at the 1867 Paris International Exposition. 1995: In 1995, his likeness was featured on the front of Belgium's 200 Belgian francs banknote. 2015: Google Doodle commemorated his 201st birthday. Notes References Bibliography SAX REVOLUTIONS: Adolphe Sax’s life. DIAGO, José-Modesto (dir. and prod.); Spain, [EnFin Producciones] 2014, 64 min: son. col. External links Pictures of saxophones made by Adolphe and Adolphe Edouard Sax 1814 births 1894 deaths 19th-century Belgian inventors Belgian musical instrument makers Belgian saxophonists Burials at Montmartre Cemetery Academic staff of the Conservatoire de Paris Inventors of musical instruments People from Dinant
Alternative or alternate may refer to: Arts, entertainment and media Alternative (Kamen Rider), a character in the Japanese TV series Kamen Rider Ryuki AlterNative, academic journal The Alternative (film), a 1978 Australian television film The Alternative, a radio show hosted by Tony Evans 120 Minutes (2004 TV program), an alternative rock music video program formerly known as The Alternative The American Spectator, an American magazine formerly known as The Alternative: An American Spectator Music Alternative (album), a B-sides album by Pet Shop Boys The Alternative (album), an album by IAMX "Altern-ate", a song by H-el-ical//, 2020 Alternative rock, also known as "alternative music" or simply "alternative" Sports Alternate (sports), a replacement or backup for a regular or starting team player Mathematics and science Alternativity, a weaker property than associativity Alternate leaves, a classification in botanical phyllotaxis Politics Alternative (Mauritania), political party The Alternative (Denmark), a green political party in Denmark The Alternative (France), electoral coalition The Alternative (Palestine), a former electoral alliance of several socialist Palestinian groups Alternativa (Kosovo political party), a liberal political party in Kosovo Alternativa (Italian political party), a populist political party in Italy Alternativa (North Macedonian political party), an Albanian political party in North Macedonia See also Alternate (theatre) Alternate reality (disambiguation) Alternatives, a Canadian non-governmental organization Alternating (disambiguation) Alternative culture, a variety of subcultures existing along the fringes of mainstream culture Alternative education, non-traditional education Alternative facts, expression associated with political misinformation coined in 2017 Alternative media, media practices falling outside the mainstreams of corporate communication Alternative music (disambiguation) Alternative press (disambiguation) The Alternate (disambiguation) Alternative science (disambiguation)
In abstract algebra, an alternative algebra is an algebra in which multiplication need not be associative, only alternative. That is, one must have for all x and y in the algebra. Every associative algebra is obviously alternative, but so too are some strictly non-associative algebras such as the octonions. The associator Alternative algebras are so named because they are the algebras for which the associator is alternating. The associator is a trilinear map given by . By definition, a multilinear map is alternating if it vanishes whenever two of its arguments are equal. The left and right alternative identities for an algebra are equivalent to Both of these identities together imply that for all and . This is equivalent to the flexible identity The associator of an alternative algebra is therefore alternating. Conversely, any algebra whose associator is alternating is clearly alternative. By symmetry, any algebra which satisfies any two of: left alternative identity: right alternative identity: flexible identity: is alternative and therefore satisfies all three identities. An alternating associator is always totally skew-symmetric. That is, for any permutation . The converse holds so long as the characteristic of the base field is not 2. Examples Every associative algebra is alternative. The octonions form a non-associative alternative algebra, a normed division algebra of dimension 8 over the real numbers. More generally, any octonion algebra is alternative. Non-examples The sedenions and all higher Cayley–Dickson algebras lose alternativity. Properties Artin's theorem states that in an alternative algebra the subalgebra generated by any two elements is associative. Conversely, any algebra for which this is true is clearly alternative. It follows that expressions involving only two variables can be written unambiguously without parentheses in an alternative algebra. A generalization of Artin's theorem states that whenever three elements in an alternative algebra associate (i.e., ), the subalgebra generated by those elements is associative. A corollary of Artin's theorem is that alternative algebras are power-associative, that is, the subalgebra generated by a single element is associative. The converse need not hold: the sedenions are power-associative but not alternative. The Moufang identities hold in any alternative algebra. In a unital alternative algebra, multiplicative inverses are unique whenever they exist. Moreover, for any invertible element and all one has This is equivalent to saying the associator vanishes for all such and . If and are invertible then is also invertible with inverse . The set of all invertible elements is therefore closed under multiplication and forms a Moufang loop. This loop of units in an alternative ring or algebra is analogous to the group of units in an associative ring or algebra. Kleinfeld's theorem states that any simple non-associative alternative ring is a generalized octonion algebra over its center. The structure theory of alternative rings is presented in the book Rings That Are Nearly Associative by Zhevlakov, Slin'ko, Shestakov, and Shirshov. Occurrence The projective plane over any alternative division ring is a Moufang plane. Every composition algebra is an alternative algebra, as shown by Guy Roos in 2008: A composition algebra A over a field K has a norm n that is a multiplicative homomorphism: connecting (A, ×) and (K, ×). Define the form ( _ : _ ): A × A → K by Then the trace of a is given by (a:1) and the conjugate by a* = (a:1)e – a where e is the basis element for 1. A series of exercises prove that a composition algebra is always an alternative algebra. See also Algebra over a field Maltsev algebra Zorn ring References External links Non-associative algebras
Afrobeat is a Nigerian music genre that involves the combination of West African musical styles (such as traditional Yoruba and Igbo music and highlife) with American funk, jazz, and soul influences, with a focus on chanted vocals, complex intersecting rhythms, and percussion. The style was pioneered in the 1960s by Nigerian multi-instrumentalist and bandleader Fela Kuti, who is responsible for popularizing the style both within and outside Nigeria. Distinct from Afrobeat is Afrobeats, a combination of sounds originating in West Africa in the 21st century, one that takes in diverse influences and is an eclectic combination of genres such as hip hop, house, jùjú, ndombolo, R&B and soca. The two genres, though often conflated, are not the same. History Afrobeat was developed in Nigeria in the late 1960s by Fela Kuti who, with drummer Tony Allen, experimented with different contemporary music of that time. Afrobeat was influenced by a variety of genres, such as highlife, fuji, and jùjú, as well as Yoruba vocal traditions, rhythm, and instruments. In the late 1950s, Kuti left Lagos to study abroad at the London School of Music where he took lessons in piano and percussion and was exposed to jazz . He then returned to Lagos and played a highlife-jazz hybrid, albeit, without commercial success. In 1969, Kuti and his band went on a trip to the U.S. and met Sandra Smith, a singer and former Black Panther. Sandra Smith (now known as Sandra Izsadore or Sandra Akanke Isidore) introduced Kuti to many writings of activists such as Martin Luther King Jr., Angela Davis, Jesse Jackson, and his biggest influence of all, Malcolm X. As Kuti was interested in African-American politics, Smith would make it his duty to inform Kuti of current events. In return, Kuti would fill her in on African culture. Since Kuti stayed at Smith's house and spent so much time with her, he started to re-evaluate his music genre. That was when Kuti realized that he was not playing African music. From that day forward, Kuti changed his sound and the message behind his music. Upon arriving in Nigeria, Kuti had also changed the name of his group to "Africa '70". The new sound hailed from a club he established called the Afrika Shrine. The band maintained a five-year residency at the Afrika Shrine from 1970 to 1975 while Afrobeat thrived among Nigerian youth. Also influential was , a Nigerian musician touring from Paris, France, with his Matumbo orchestra in the 1970s. The name was partially born out of an attempt to distinguish Fela Kuti's music from the soul music of American artists such as James Brown. Prevalent in his and Lagbaja's music are native Nigerian harmonies and rhythms, taking different elements and combining, modernizing, and improvising upon them. Politics is essential to Afrobeat, due to Kuti using social criticism to pave the way for change. His message can be described as confrontational and controversial, which relates to the political climate of most of the African countries in the 1970s, many of which were dealing with political injustice and military corruption while recovering from the transition from colonial governments to self-determination. As the genre spread throughout the African continent, many bands took up the style. The recordings of these bands and their songs were rarely heard or exported outside the originating countries but many can now be found on compilation albums and CDs from specialist record shops. Influence Many jazz musicians have been attracted to the genre of Afrobeat. From Roy Ayers in the 1970s to Randy Weston in the 1990s, there have been collaborations that have resulted in albums such as Africa: Centre of the World by Roy Ayers, released on the Polydore label in 1981. In 1994, Branford Marsalis, the American jazz saxophonist, included samples of Fela's "Beasts of No Nation" on his Buckshot LeFonque album. Afrobeat has also profoundly influenced various contemporary producers and musicians, such as Brian Eno and David Byrne, who credit Fela Kuti as an essential influence. Both worked on Talking Heads' highly acclaimed 1980 album Remain in Light, which brought polyrhythmic Afrobeat influences to Western music. The new generation of DJs and musicians of the 2000s who have fallen in love with both Kuti's material and other rare releases have made compilations and remixes of these recordings, thus re-introducing the genre to new generations of listeners and fans of afropop and groove. In the late 1990s and early 2000s, a small Afrobeat scene began in Brooklyn, New York, with projects including Antibalas, The Daktaris and the Kokolo Afrobeat Orchestra. Since then, other artists like Zongo Junction have come onto the scene. Many others have cited Afrobeat as an influence like Daptone Records-adjacent groups The Budos Band and El Michels Affair. The horn section of Antibalas have been guest musicians on TV on the Radio's highly acclaimed 2008 album Dear Science, as well as on British band Foals' 2008 album Antidotes. Further examples are Val Veneto, Radio Bantu, Tam Tam Afrobeat, Combo Makabro, Marabunta Orquesta, Minga!, Antropofonica, Guanabana Afrobeat Orquesta, El Gran Capitan, Morbo y Mambo, Luka Afrobeat Orquesta or NikiLauda. Some Afrobeat influence can also be found in the music of Vampire Weekend and Paul Simon. In 2020, Antibalas was nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Global Music Album. Afrobeat artists of the 2000s and present, continue to follow in the footsteps of Fela Kuti. Some examples of these artists are his sons Femi Kuti and Seun Kuti, Franck Biyong & Massak (from Cameroon), London Afrobeat Collective (from London, UK), Segun Damisa & the Afro-beat Crusaders, Shaolin Afronauts (from Adelaide, Australia), Newen Afrobeat (from Santiago, Chile), Eddy Taylor & the Heartphones (from Cologne, Germany), Bantucrew, the Albinoid Afrobeat Orchestra / Albinoid Sound System (from Strasbourg, France), Underground System / Underground System Afrobeat (from Brooklyn, New York), Abayomy Afrobeat Orquestra, Chicago Afrobeat Orchestra, Warsaw Afrobeat Orchestra, Karl Hector & the Malcouns (from Munich, Germany), Ojibo Afrobeat (from Vilnius, Lithuania), Afrodizz and Dele Sosimi and the ex-Africa '70 members Oghene Kologbo (guitar) with Afrobeat Academy, Nicholas Addo-Nettey (percussion), who is also known as , with Ridimtaksi (both based in Berlin, Germany). Namibian artist EES (Eric Sell) associates Afrobeat with reggae and kwaito. In 2009, the music label Knitting Factory Records (KFR) produced the Broadway musical Fela! The story showcased Kuti's "courage and incredible musical mastery" along with the story of his life. The show had 11 Tony nominations, receiving three for Best Costumes, Best Sound and Best Choreography. Fela! was on Broadway for 15 months and was produced by notables such as Shawn "Jay-Z " Carter and Will and Jada Pinkett-Smith. Many celebrities were noted as attending the shows, including Denzel Washington, Madonna, Sting, Spike Lee (who saw it eight times), Kofi Annan, and Michelle Obama. Michelle Williams, former singer of girl group Destiny's Child, was cast as the role of Sandra Izsadore. Fela Kuti's music has been sampled by various hip-hop musicians such as Missy Elliott, J. Cole, Kanye West, as well as other popular acts such as Beyoncé. The "Festival de Afrobeat Independiente" (FAI) takes place regularly in Buenos Aires, where regional bands as well as renown Afrobeat acts perform. See also Afrobeats Afroswing Confusion (album) Latin music (genre) References Further reading Afrobeat (BBC archived page) Fela Kuti coined Afrobeat in Accra out of hate for James Brown – Prof John Collins 20th-century music genres 21st-century music genres African popular music Nigerian styles of music Jazz genres Yoruba music Funk genres Music of the African diaspora Fela Kuti
Antinomy (Greek ἀντί, antí, "against, in opposition to", and νόμος, nómos, "law") refers to a real or apparent mutual incompatibility of two laws. It is a term used in logic and epistemology, particularly in the philosophy of Immanuel Kant. There are many examples of antinomy. A self-contradictory phrase such as "There is no absolute truth" can be considered an antinomy because this statement is suggesting in itself to be an absolute truth, and therefore denies itself any truth in its statement. It is not necessarily also a paradox. A paradox, such as "this sentence is false" can also be considered to be an antinomy; in this case, for the sentence to be true, it must be false. Kant's use The term acquired a special significance in the philosophy of Immanuel Kant (1724–1804), who used it to describe the equally rational but contradictory results of applying to the universe of pure thought the categories or criteria of reason that are proper to the universe of sensible perception or experience (phenomena). Empirical reason cannot here play the role of establishing rational truths because it goes beyond possible experience and is applied to the sphere of that which transcends it. For Kant there are four antinomies, connected with: the limitation of the universe in respect to space and time the theory that the whole consists of indivisible atoms (whereas, in fact, none such exist) the problem of free will in relation to universal causality the existence of a universal being In each antinomy, a thesis is contradicted by an antithesis. For example: in the first antinomy, Kant proves the thesis that time must have a beginning by showing that if time had no beginning, then an infinity would have elapsed up until the present moment. This is a manifest contradiction because infinity cannot, by definition, be completed by "successive synthesis"—yet just such a finalizing synthesis would be required by the view that time is infinite; so the thesis is proven. Then he proves the antithesis, that time has no beginning, by showing that if time had a beginning, then there must have been "empty time" out of which time arose. This is incoherent (for Kant) for the following reason: Since, necessarily, no time elapses in this pretemporal void, then there could be no alteration, and therefore nothing (including time) would ever come to be: so the antithesis is proven. Reason makes equal claim to each proof, since they are both correct, so the question of the limits of time must be regarded as meaningless. This was part of Kant's critical program of determining limits to science and philosophical inquiry. These contradictions are inherent in reason when it is applied to the world as it is in itself, independently of any perception of it (this has to do with the distinction between phenomena and noumena). Kant's goal in his critical philosophy was to identify what claims are and are not justified, and the antinomies are a particularly illustrative example of his larger project. Marx's use In Das Kapital, Volume I in the chapter entitled "The Working Day", Karl Marx claims that capitalist production sustains "the assertion of a right to an unlimited working day, and the assertion of a right to a limited working day, both with equal justification". Furner emphasizes that the thesis and antithesis of this antinomy are not contradictory opposites, but rather "consist in the assertion of rights to states of affairs that are contradictory opposites". See also Mutual incompatibility Law: Alternative pleading Logic: Mutual exclusivity Kettle logic Paradox Religion: Antinomianism (Christianity) Others: Oxymoron Double bind References External links Kantianism Concepts in logic
In mathematics, the ascending chain condition (ACC) and descending chain condition (DCC) are finiteness properties satisfied by some algebraic structures, most importantly ideals in certain commutative rings. These conditions played an important role in the development of the structure theory of commutative rings in the works of David Hilbert, Emmy Noether, and Emil Artin. The conditions themselves can be stated in an abstract form, so that they make sense for any partially ordered set. This point of view is useful in abstract algebraic dimension theory due to Gabriel and Rentschler. Definition A partially ordered set (poset) P is said to satisfy the ascending chain condition (ACC) if no infinite strictly ascending sequence of elements of P exists. Equivalently, every weakly ascending sequence of elements of P eventually stabilizes, meaning that there exists a positive integer n such that Similarly, P is said to satisfy the descending chain condition (DCC) if there is no infinite descending chain of elements of P. Equivalently, every weakly descending sequence of elements of P eventually stabilizes. Comments Assuming the axiom of dependent choice, the descending chain condition on (possibly infinite) poset P is equivalent to P being well-founded: every nonempty subset of P has a minimal element (also called the minimal condition or minimum condition). A totally ordered set that is well-founded is a well-ordered set. Similarly, the ascending chain condition is equivalent to P being converse well-founded (again, assuming dependent choice): every nonempty subset of P has a maximal element (the maximal condition or maximum condition). Every finite poset satisfies both the ascending and descending chain conditions, and thus is both well-founded and converse well-founded. Example Consider the ring of integers. Each ideal of consists of all multiples of some number . For example, the ideal consists of all multiples of . Let be the ideal consisting of all multiples of . The ideal is contained inside the ideal , since every multiple of is also a multiple of . In turn, the ideal is contained in the ideal , since every multiple of is a multiple of . However, at this point there is no larger ideal; we have "topped out" at . In general, if are ideals of such that is contained in , is contained in , and so on, then there is some for which all . That is, after some point all the ideals are equal to each other. Therefore, the ideals of satisfy the ascending chain condition, where ideals are ordered by set inclusion. Hence is a Noetherian ring. See also Artinian Ascending chain condition for principal ideals Krull dimension Maximal condition on congruences Noetherian Notes Citations References External links Commutative algebra Order theory Wellfoundedness
Achduart (Gaelic: Achadh Dhubhaird) is a coastal hamlet in Coigach, Wester Ross in northwestern Scotland, now within the Highland council area. It is situated about 4 km southeast of the village of Achiltibuie, at the end of a minor road. A footpath continues on to the hamlet of Culnacraig, then along the coast past Ben More Coigach to Strathcanaird. Achduart has accommodation facilities for tourists, who come for its proximity to the sea and its seclusion and remoteness. There is a hostel in Acheninver, a short distance to the north, formerly run by the Scottish Youth Hostels Association. The name of Achduart comes from the Gaelic for "the field at the black headland". Achduart was part of the Estate of Coigach, Lochbroom, belonging to the Countess of Cromartie. The dominant geographical feature in the area is Cairn Conmheall, which rises to 541 metres. Notable people Kenny John Macleod -fiddler References External links Coigach Genealogy Populated places in Ross and Cromarty
Achiltibuie (; or Field of the yellow-haired boy) is a long linear village in Ross and Cromarty, Highland, on the Coigach coast of northwestern Scotland, overlooking Badentarbet Bay to the west. Loch Broom and the Summer Isles lie to the south. Located 10 miles (16 km) northwest of Ullapool as the crow flies. Achiltibuie is the central community of a series of townships and communities stretching from Culnacraig, through Badenscallie and Polglass (where the community hall, the primary school and the Piping School Cafe are located), Polbain, and Reiff to Achnahaird. History The first post office in the village opened on 28 July 1884. Smokehouse For a time the Summer Isles Smokehouse attracted visitors. In 2013 the community had hopes to re-establish the business. Hydroponicum The Hydroponicum, a facility for growing fresh fruit and vegetables indoors using hydroponics, was built in the village in the 1980s by Robert Irvine, then owner of the Summer Isles Hotel. The Hydroponicum was known for growing exotic fruit such as bananas all year round. It attracted up to 10,000 visitors a year until it was sold in 2007 to a company based in the Isle of Man. New greenhouses have since been built apart from the original hydroponicum buildings, and the new owners continue to grow fruit and vegetables for local businesses and residents. A community buyout attempt in 2011 by the Coigach Community Development Company fell through when the site's sellers pulled out. The building has now been demolished. Some of the former staff of the Hydroponicum run a small-scale activity known as The Achiltibuie Garden, situated nearby. Notable residents Tom Longstaff (1875-1964), mountaineer. Lucy Irvine (b. 1956), writer, lived very briefly in the Summer Isles Hotel with her father, who owned it and the Hydroponicum. :de:Reiner Luyken (b.1951), former foreign correspondent of the German weekly paper Die Zeit Notable recent achievements 'Coigach Community Rowing' the crew members of which coastal rowing club are all local, won the World St. Ayles Skiff Rowing Championships in July 2013 and a mixed crew from the club won the Alan Spong Trophy for 1st Mixed crew 4-oar rowing at the Thames Great River Race in September 2013. Coigach Community Rowing hand-built their two St Ayles rowing skiffs, the 'Coigach Lass' and the 'Lily~Rose' and race under the auspices of the Scottish Coastal Rowing Association, which is the governing body of St Ayles class coastal rowing around the world. The Brochs of Coigach designed by SBA Architects Ltd were shortlisted in 2011 for the RIAS Andrew Doolan Best Building in Scotland Award. They are two unique buildings landscaped into a hillside. They were Regional Finalist of the Civic Trust Awards 2013. In 2015, they were highly commended in the inaugural Scottish Rural Awards. Cultural connections The Roman epic movie The Eagle, based on the 1954 novel The Eagle of the Ninth by Rosemary Sutcliff, was filmed on location in Achiltibuie for a week in October 2009. The main location was Fox Point, Old Dornie. The Pictish village which was constructed at Fox Point was used on most days of the filming. Other sites included Achnahaird beach where a horse chase was filmed and Loch Lurgainn. The village and its residents featured in The Wee Mad Road (2008) by Jack and Barbara Maloney. Achiltibuie is also the setting of a humorous German book about Scotland by Reiner Luyken, Schotten dicht (2015) published by Ullstein Verlag, Berlin. References External links Achiltibuie Tourist Association Coigach Genealogy Populated places in Ross and Cromarty Hydroponics
In economics, adaptive expectations is a hypothesized process by which people form their expectations about what will happen in the future based on what has happened in the past. For example, if people want to create an expectation of the inflation rate in the future, they can refer to past inflation rates to infer some consistencies and could derive a more accurate expectation the more years they consider. One simple version of adaptive expectations is stated in the following equation, where is the next year's rate of inflation that is currently expected; is this year's rate of inflation that was expected last year; and is this year's actual rate of inflation: where is between 0 and 1. This says that current expectations of future inflation reflect past expectations and an "error-adjustment" term, in which current expectations are raised (or lowered) according to the gap between actual inflation and previous expectations. The error-adjustment term, also called partial adjustment, allows for variations in inflation rates over the previous years, especially years that have abnormally high or low rates. The above term is the partial adjustment error term, this term allows for variances that occur between actual values and expected values. The importance of considering the error prevents over and under expecting values of in the above example inflation rates. The adjustment means that the expectation can tend toward the direction of the future expected value that would be closer to the actual value, this allows a prediction to be made and consideration to be added or removed so as to be accurate of the future expectation. This consideration or error term is what allows the predicted value to be adaptable, thus creating an equation that is adaptive of the expectation being inferred. The theory of adaptive expectations can be applied to all previous periods so that current inflationary expectations equal: where equals actual inflation years in the past. The adding of a time series portion to the expectation equations accounts for multiple previous years and their respective rates in forecasting like the above example of the future inflation rate. Thus, current expected inflation reflects a weighted average of all past inflation rates, where the weights get smaller and smaller as we move further in to the past. The initial previous year has the highest weighting and the subsequent years take lesser weighting the further back the equation accounts for. When an agent makes a forecasting error (as in incorrectly recording a value or mistyping), the stochastic shock will cause the agent to incorrectly forecast the price expectation level again even if the price level experiences no further shocks, since the previous expectations only ever incorporates part of their errors. The backward nature of expectation formulation and the resultant systematic errors made by agents (see cobweb model) had become unsatisfactory to economists such as John Muth, who was pivotal in the development of an alternative model of how expectations are formed, called rational expectations. The use of rational expectations have largely replaced adaptive expectations in macroeconomic theory since its assumptions rely on an optimal expectations approach which is consistent with economic theory. However, it must be stressed that confronting adaptive expectations and rational expectations aren't necessarily justified by either use, in other words, there are situations in which following the adaptive scheme is a rational response. The first use adaptive expectations hypothesis was to describe agent behavior in The Purchasing Power of Money by Irving Fisher (1911), then later used to describe models such as hyperinflation by Philip Cagan (1956). Adaptive expectations were instrumental in the consumption function (1957) and Phillips curve outlined by Milton Friedman. Friedman suggests that workers form adaptive expectations of the inflation rate, the government can easily surprise them through unexpected monetary policy changes. As agents are trapped by the money illusion, they are unable to correctly perceive price and wage dynamics, so based on Friedman's theory, unemployment can always be reduced through monetary expansions. If the government chooses to fix a low unemployment rate the result is an increasing level of inflation for an extended period of time. However, in this framework, it is clear why and how adaptive expectations are problematic. Agents are arbitrarily supposed to ignore sources of information which, otherwise, would affect their expectations. For example, government announcements are such sources. Agents are expected to modify their expectations and break with the former trends when changes in economic policy necessitate it. This is the reason why the theory of adaptive expectations is often regarded as a deviation from the rational tradition of economics. See also Policy ineffectiveness proposition Problem of induction Rational expectations Self-fulfilling prophecy Cobweb model Phillips curve Consumption function References General references Economic forecasting
The RUR-5 ASROC (for "Anti-Submarine Rocket") is an all-weather, all sea-conditions anti-submarine missile system. Developed by the United States Navy in the 1950s, it was deployed in the 1960s, updated in the 1990s, and eventually installed on over 200 USN surface ships, specifically cruisers, destroyers, and frigates. The ASROC has been deployed on scores of warships of many other navies, including Canada, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Republic of China, Greece, Pakistan and others. History ASROC started development as the Rocket Assisted Torpedo (RAT) program by Naval Air Weapons Station China Lake in the early 1950s to develop a surface warship ASW weapon to counter the new post-World War II submarines which ran quieter, at much higher speed and could attack from much longer range with high speed homing torpedoes. In addition, the goal was to take advantage of modern sonars with a much larger detection range. An extended range torpedo delivered by parachute from the air would allow warships the stand-off capability to attack hostile submarines with very little advance notice to the hostile submarine. The RAT program came in three phases: RAT-A, RAT-B and RAT-C. RAT-A and its follow-on, RAT-B, were compact and economical stand-off weapons for smaller warships, but were determined to be either unreliable or had too short a range. RAT-C was developed as a stand-off ASW weapon that used a nuclear depth charge. This required a range of at least to escape potential damage from the underwater blast. The RAT-C was considerably larger than the previous RAT program rockets to accommodate the extended range needed and was for larger warships. After the failure of both the RAT-A and RAT-B programs, RAT-C was redesigned to use not only a nuclear depth charge but also a homing ASW torpedo. To obtain the accuracy needed, the RAT-C rocket booster had to be redesigned with larger side fins. This program finally combined reliability and accuracy, along with the required stand-off range. Before RAT-C reached operational status in 1960, aboard the large US Navy destroyer leader , its name was changed to ASROC. ASROC was deployed in 1961 and eventually made the majority of USN surface combatants nuclear-capable. Description The first ASROC system using the MK-112 "Matchbox" launcher was developed in the 1950s and installed in the 1960s. This system was phased out in the 1990s and replaced with the RUM-139 Vertical Launch ASROC, or "VLA". After a surface ship, patrol plane or anti-submarine helicopter detects an enemy submarine by using sonar or other sensors, it could relay the sub's position to an ASROC-equipped ship for attack. The attacking ship would then fire an ASROC missile carrying an acoustic homing torpedo or a W44 nuclear depth bomb onto an unguided ballistic trajectory toward the target. At a pre-determined point on the missile's trajectory, the payload separates from the missile and deploys a parachute to permit splashdown and water entry at a low speed and with minimum detectable noise. Water entry activates the torpedo, which is guided by its own sonar system, and homes in on the target using either active sonar or passive sonar. W44 nuclear depth charge The W44 nuclear depth charge entered service in 1961, but was never used beyond one or two tests before the Limited Nuclear Test Ban Treaty banning underwater nuclear tests went into effect. A total of 575 weapons were produced. The W44 weighed with a diameter of and length of . Following payload separation, the unguided W44 sank quickly to a predetermined depth where the 10-kiloton warhead detonated. The nuclear-armed ASROC was never used in combat. W44-armed ASROC missiles were retired by 1989, when all types of nuclear depth bombs were removed from deployment. Specific installations One of the first ASROC installations was on in 1960. The first large group of ships to receive ASROC were 78 s, modified under the Fleet Rehabilitation and Modernization Mark I program (FRAM I) in the early 1960s. A Mark 112 8-tube ASROC launcher was added along with other major modifications. ASROC reloads were stowed alongside the helicopter hangar and handled by a small crane. The 31 U.S. Navy s were all built with the Mark 16 Mod 7 ASROC Launching Group and MK 4 ASROC Weapons Handling System (AWHS) reload system. These had one standard Mark 112 octuple ASROC launcher, located immediately above a reload system holding an additional 16 assembled rounds (two complete reloads of eight missiles apiece). Thus, each Spruance-class destroyer originally carried a maximum total of 24 ASROC. Most other US Navy and allied navy destroyers, destroyer escorts, frigates, and several different classes of cruisers only carried the one ASROC "matchbox" MK 112 launcher with eight ASROC missiles (although later in service, some of those missiles could be replaced by the Harpoon anti-ship missile). The "matchbox" Mk 112 launchers were capable of carrying a mixture of the two types. Reloads were carried in many classes, either on first level of the superstructure immediately abaft the launcher, or in a separate deckhouse just forward or abaft the Mk 112. The MK 16 Launching Group also had configurations that supported RGM-84 Harpoon (onboard destroyer escorts (frigates)) or a variation of the Tartar missile in limited distribution. Ships with the Mk 26 GMLS, and late marks of the Mk 10 GMLS aboard the s, could accommodate ASROC in these power-loaded launchers (the Mk 13 GMLS was not able to fire the weapon, as the launcher rail was too short). Most Spruance-class destroyers were later modified to include the Mk 41 VLS, these launchers are capable of carrying a mixture of the RUM-139 VL-ASROC, the Tomahawk TLAM, and other missiles. All of the Spruance destroyers carried two separate quad Harpoon launchers. Other US ships with the Mk 41 can also accommodate VL-ASROC. Operators Former operators - only on s (after IRE/DELEX modification.) - only on s - only on using a Mk 10 GMLS launcher (depot for 40 missiles, between RIM-2 Terrier / RIM-67A SM-1ER and ASROC) See also Ikara Hong Sang Eo Malafon MILAS RUM-139 VL-ASROC Sea Lance SUBROC Terasca List of nuclear weapons Nuclear weapon design SUW-N-1 References External links https://fas.org/man/dod-101/sys/missile/vla.htm http://www.gyrodynehelicopters.com/asroc.htm http://designation-systems.net/dusrm/r-5.html DiGiulian, Tony Navweaps.com ASROC page Allbombs.html list of all US nuclear warheads at nuclearweaponarchive.org Anti-submarine missiles of the United States Cold War nuclear missiles of the United States Ballistic missiles of the United States Cold War anti-submarine weapons of the United States Mk016 RUR005 Honeywell Military equipment introduced in the 1960s
Ahmed Ibrahim al-Haznawi al-Ghamdi (; 11 October 198011 September 2001) was a Saudi terrorist hijacker. He was one of the four hijackers of United Airlines Flight 93, which was crashed into a field in Stonycreek Township, Pennsylvania, following a passenger revolt, as part of the 11 September attacks. He left his family to fight in Chechnya in 2000 but was probably sent to training camps in Afghanistan. It was there he was chosen to participate in the 9/11 attacks. He arrived in the United States in June 2001 under the direction of Al-Qaeda for terrorist attacks, on a tourist visa. Once he was in the U.S., he settled in Florida and helped plan out how the attacks would take place. On 11 September 2001, al-Haznawi boarded United Airlines Flight 93 and assisted in the hijacking of the plane so it could be crashed into either the United States Capitol or the White House. Haznawi or Ahmed al-Nami are believed to be one of the apparent hijackers to have carried the bomb. Instead, the plane crashed into a field in Somerset County, Pennsylvania, after the passengers on-board started a revolt against al-Haznawi and the other hijackers. Early life Ahmed al-Haznawi was the son of a Saudi imam from the Al-Bahah province, a province in the south west of Saudi Arabia. Al-Haznawi grew up in the village of Hazna, where his father was a cleric at the mosque in the central marketplace section of the village. Al-Haznawi belonged to a family that was part of the larger Ghamd tribe, sharing the same tribal affiliation with fellow hijackers Saeed al-Ghamdi, Hamza al-Ghamdi, and Ahmed al-Ghamdi. He memorised the Quran, giving him the title hafiz. This group is noted as being some of the more religiously observant of the hijackers, and they are thought to have met one another some time in 1999. Early activities 1999–2000 Al-Haznawi announced he was leaving his family in 1999 to fight in Chechnya, although his father forbade him. His father and brother, Abdul Rahman al-Haznawi, reportedly last heard from him in late 2000, after he made references to training in Afghanistan. On 12 November 2000, al-Haznawi applied for and received a two-year U.S. B-1/B-2 (tourist/business) visa in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. From 27 November 2000, through 27 December that year, al-Haznawi was in Saudi Arabia for Ramadan. It is theorized that during this trip, he may have initially told Saeed and Hamza al-Ghamdi about the operation. Some time late in 2000, al-Haznawi traveled to the United Arab Emirates, where he purchased traveler's cheques presumed to have been paid for by Mustafa al-Hawsawi. Five other hijackers also passed through the UAE and purchased travellers cheques, including Majed Moqed, Saeed al-Ghamdi, Hamza al-Ghamdi, Wail al-Shehri and Ahmed al-Nami. 2001 He was one of four hijackers believed to be staying at a Kandahar guest house in March 2001, where they were seen by Mohammed Jabarah. Jabarah remembered al-Haznawi specifically, saying that he was "very devout and could recite the entire Koran from memory." On 8 June, he arrived in Miami, Florida, with fellow hijacker Wail al-Shehri. He was one of nine hijackers to open a SunTrust bank account with a cash deposit around June 2001. He is believed to have moved in with Ziad Jarrah, who got a new apartment on Bougainvilla Dr. in Lauderdale-by-the-Sea, after both men gave the landlord photocopies of their German passports, which he later turned over to the FBI. On 25 June, Jarrah took al-Haznawi to Holy Cross Hospital in Fort Lauderdale on advice of his landlord. Al-Haznawi was treated by Dr. Christos Tsonas, who gave him antibiotics for a cut on his left calf. While he told staff that he had bumped into a suitcase, the media briefly reported it as a sign of cutaneous anthrax and a possible link to the 2001 anthrax attacks, although FBI later addressed the rumors stating that "Exhaustive testing did not support that anthrax was present anywhere the hijackers had been." On 10 July, al-Haznawi obtained a Florida driver's license, later obtaining another copy on 7 September 2001, by filling out a change-of-address form. Five other hijackers also received duplicate Florida licenses in 2001, and others had licenses from different states. Some have speculated that this was to allow multiple persons to use the same identity. Jarrah and al-Haznawi both received their one-way tickets for United Airlines Flight 93, on 5 September. On 7 September, all four Flight 93 hijackers flew from Fort Lauderdale to Newark International Airport aboard Spirit Airlines. Attacks On 11 September 2001, al-Haznawi arrived at Newark International Airport to board United Airlines Flight 93. Although he was selected for additional security by CAPPS and screened, he was able to board the flight without incident, with only his checked bags requiring extra screening for explosives. Due to the flight's delay, the pilot and crew were notified of the previous hijackings that day and were told to be on the alert. Within minutes, Flight 93 was hijacked as well. At least two of the cellphone calls made by passengers indicate that the hijackers were wearing red bandanas. The calls also indicated that one had tied a box around his torso, and claimed there was a bomb inside. Some passengers expressed doubt that the bomb was real. Passengers on the plane heard through phone calls the fates of the other hijacked planes. A passenger uprising soon took place. Hijacker-pilot Ziad Jarrah crashed the plane into an empty field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, in order to prevent the passengers from gaining control of the plane. The crash killed everyone on board. Aftermath After the attacks, before the release of the FBI pictures of the hijackers, Arab News reported that al-Haznawi's brother Abdul Rahman had told al-Madinah newspaper that a photograph published by local newspapers bore no resemblance to his brother. A videotape titled "The Wills of the New York and Washington Battle Martyrs" was aired on Al Jazeera on 16 April 2002. While the name beneath the speaker read al-Ghamdi, the image is of al-Haznawi speaking. Officials suggested that the name was merely a reference to his tribal affiliation. The film was thought to have been made in March 2001. In it, he talked about his plans to bring the "bloodied message" to America. In September 2002, a similar tape made by Abdulaziz al-Omari appeared. In popular culture He has been portrayed by Moroccan actor Omar Berdouni in United 93, and Canadian actor Zak Santiago in Flight 93. Television film The Flight That Fought Back (2005) portrays the passenger uprising inside the hijacked United Airlines 93, with actor Hugh Mun portraying Ahmedal-Haznawi. See also PENTTBOM Hijackers in the 11 September attacks References External links The Final 9/11 Commission Report Bin Laden tape with Haznawi 1980 births 2001 deaths Deaths in Somerset County, Pennsylvania Participants in the September 11 attacks People from Al-Bahah Province Saudi Arabian al-Qaeda members Saudi Arabian mass murderers United Airlines Flight 93
The Absolute Infinite (symbol: Ω) is an extension of the idea of infinity proposed by mathematician Georg Cantor. It can be thought of as a number that is bigger than any other conceivable or inconceivable quantity, either finite or transfinite. Cantor linked the Absolute Infinite with God, and believed that it had various mathematical properties, including the reflection principle: every property of the Absolute Infinite is also held by some smaller object. Cantor's view Cantor said: Cantor also mentioned the idea in his letters to Richard Dedekind (text in square brackets not present in original): The Burali-Forti paradox The idea that the collection of all ordinal numbers cannot logically exist seems paradoxical to many. This is related to Cesare Burali-Forti's "paradox" which states that there can be no greatest ordinal number. All of these problems can be traced back to the idea that, for every property that can be logically defined, there exists a set of all objects that have that property. However, as in Cantor's argument (above), this idea leads to difficulties. More generally, as noted by A. W. Moore, there can be no end to the process of set formation, and thus no such thing as the totality of all sets, or the set hierarchy. Any such totality would itself have to be a set, thus lying somewhere within the hierarchy and thus failing to contain every set. A standard solution to this problem is found in Zermelo's set theory, which does not allow the unrestricted formation of sets from arbitrary properties. Rather, we may form the set of all objects that have a given property and lie in some given set (Zermelo's Axiom of Separation). This allows for the formation of sets based on properties, in a limited sense, while (hopefully) preserving the consistency of the theory. While this solves the logical problem, one could argue that the philosophical problem remains. It seems natural that a set of individuals ought to exist, so long as the individuals exist. Indeed, naive set theory might be said to be based on this notion. Although Zermelo's fix allows a class to describe arbitrary (possibly "large") entities, these predicates of the meta-language may have no formal existence (i.e., as a set) within the theory. For example, the class of all sets would be a proper class. This is philosophically unsatisfying to some and has motivated additional work in set theory and other methods of formalizing the foundations of mathematics such as New Foundations by Willard Van Orman Quine. See also Actual infinity Limitation of size Monadology Reflection principle The Ultimate (philosophy) Ineffability Notes Bibliography The role of the absolute infinite in Cantor's conception of set Infinity and the Mind, Rudy Rucker, Princeton, New Jersey: Princeton University Press, 1995, ; orig. pub. Boston: Birkhäuser, 1982, . The Infinite, A. W. Moore, London, New York: Routledge, 1990, . Set Theory, Skolem's Paradox and the Tractatus, A. W. Moore, Analysis 45, #1 (January 1985), pp. 13–20. Philosophy of mathematics Infinity Superlatives in religion Conceptions of God
The Archbishopric of Riga (, ) was an archbishopric in Medieval Livonia, a subject to the Holy See. It was established in 1186 as the bishopric of Livonia at Ikšķile, then after moving to Riga it became the bishopric of Riga in 1202 and was elevated to an archbishopric in 1255. Archbishops of Riga The archbishops of Riga were also the secular rulers of Riga until 1561 when during the Reformation the territory converted from Catholicism to Lutheranism and all church territories were secularized. The see was restored as a diocese of the Catholic Church in 1918 and raised into an archdiocese in 1923. Bishops and Archbishops of Riga A new Bishopric of Livonia was established in Latgalia in 1621 during the Inflanty Voivodeship of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. Coinage The Archbishops of Riga were innovators in the field of minting currency, reviving techniques abandoned since the collapse of Rome. The names of individual archbishops after 1418, as well as the years of their respective reigns, are stamped on Livonian pennies excavated at archaeological sites. In many cases, this is the only biographical data available. No Livonian pennies before 1418 have been found. See also Bishopric of Courland Bishopric of Dorpat Bishopric of Ösel-Wiek Bishopric of Reval Livonian Crusade Livonian Brothers of the Sword Monastic state of the Teutonic Knights External links More information about the role of the Archbishopric of Riga in the history of coinage is available at Medieval Livonian Numismatics by William Urban Archbishopric of Riga (Archived 2009-10-25) Rīgas arhibīskapija (1255-1562) Rīgas bīskapija un virsbīskapija References Prince-bishoprics in Livonia History of Livonia History of Riga Medieval Latvia Gulf of Riga States and territories established in 1186 States and territories disestablished in 1561 1186 establishments in Europe 1561 disestablishments in Europe Former theocracies
Albert Frederick (; ; 7 May 1553 – 27 August 1618) was the Duke of Prussia, from 1568 until his death. He was a son of Albert of Prussia and Anna Marie of Brunswick-Lüneburg. He was the second and last Prussian duke of the Ansbach branch of the Hohenzollern family. Duke of Prussia Albert became Duke of Prussia after paying feudal homage to his cousin, the King of Poland, Zygmunt August, on 19 July 1569 in Lublin. The homage was described by the Polish chronicler Jan Kochanowski in his work Proporzec ("Standard"). During the 1573 Polish election, Albert Frederick attempted to gain acceptance to the Polish senate but was opposed by the powerful Jan Zamoyski (later Grand Hetman of the Crown of the Kingdom of Poland) who feared the influence of Protestants in the Polish legislative body. Albert Frederick initially refused to recognize the election of Stefan Bathory and supported the candidacy of Maximilian of Habsburg. However, at the Toruń sejm of October 1576 he gave his support to the new monarch. As the great grandson of the Polish king Casimir IV Jagiellon, and as a Duke in Prussia who was fluent in Polish, Albert Frederick was seriously considered for a time as a possible candidate for the Polish throne. He particularly enjoyed the support of Polish Lutherans. In 1572 he began to exhibit signs of mental disorder. In early 1578, the regency was taken over by his cousin, George Frederick of Brandenburg-Kulmbach (1539–1603). After George Frederick's death in 1603, the Polish king Sigismund III Vasa appointed Joachim Frederick as regent in 1605, and permitted his son, John Sigismund, to succeed him in 1611. The latter became Duke of Prussia after Albert Frederick's death in 1618. Marriage Albert Frederick was married in 1573 to Marie Eleonore of Cleves, a daughter of Wilhelm, Duke of Jülich-Cleves-Berg and Archduchess Maria of Austria (1531–1581). Maria was a daughter of Ferdinand I, Holy Roman Emperor and Anna of Bohemia and Hungary. Issue Albert Frederick and Marie were parents to seven children: Anna of Prussia (3 July 1576 – 30 August 1625). Married John Sigismund, Elector of Brandenburg. Marie of Prussia (23 January 1579 – 21 February 1649). Married Christian, Margrave of Brandenburg-Bayreuth. Frederick Henry of Hohenzollern (4 October 1579 – 14 October 1672) Albert Frederick of Prussia (1 June 1580 – 8 October 1580). Sophie of Prussia (31 March 1582 – 4 December 1610). Married Wilhelm Kettler of Courland. Eleanor of Prussia (21 August 1583 – 9 April 1607). Married Joachim Frederick, Elector of Brandenburg. Wilhelm Frederick of Prussia (23 June 1585 – 18 January 1586). Magdalene Sibylle of Prussia (31 December 1586 – 22 February 1659). Married John George I, Elector of Saxony. At his death, the duchy passed to his son-in-law John Sigismund, Margrave of Brandenburg, combining the two territories under a single dynasty and forming Brandenburg-Prussia. Ancestors References External links Albert Frederick profile in the Neue Deutsche Biographie. Albert Frederick profile in the Allgemeine Deutsche Biographie. 1553 births 1618 deaths 16th-century dukes of Prussia 17th-century dukes of Prussia House of Hohenzollern People from the Duchy of Prussia Nobility from Königsberg Protestant monarchs Duchy of Prussia
The Arno is a river in the Tuscany region of Italy. It is the most important river of central Italy after the Tiber. Source and route The river originates on Monte Falterona in the Casentino area of the Apennines, and initially takes a southward curve. The river turns to the west near Arezzo passing through Florence, Empoli and Pisa, flowing into the Tyrrhenian Sea at Marina di Pisa. With a length of , it is the largest river in the region. It has many tributaries: Sieve at long, Bisenzio at , Ombrone Pistoiese at , and the Era, Elsa, Pesa, and Pescia. The drainage basin amounts to more than and drains the waters of the following subbasins: The Casentino, in the province of Arezzo, formed by the upper course of the river until its confluence with the Maestro della Chiana channel. The Val di Chiana, a plain drained in the 18th century, which until then had been a marshy area tributary of the Tiber. The upper Valdarno, a long valley bordered on the east by the Pratomagno massif and on the west by the hills around Siena. The Sieve's basin, which flows into the Arno immediately before Florence. The middle Valdarno, with the plain including Florence, Sesto Fiorentino, Prato, and Pistoia. The lower Valdarno, with the valley of important tributaries such as the Pesa, Elsa, and Era and in which, after Pontedera, the Arno flows into the Ligurian Sea. The river has a very variable discharge, ranging from about to more than . The mouth of the river was once near Pisa but is now several kilometres westwards. It crosses Florence, where it passes below the Ponte Vecchio and the Santa Trinita bridge (built by Bartolomeo Ammannati but inspired by Michelangelo). The river flooded this city regularly in historical times, most recently in 1966, with after rainfall of in Badia Agnano and in Florence, in only 24 hours.{{Citation needed}} Before Pisa, the Arno is crossed by the Imperial Canal at La Botte. This water channel passes under the Arno through a tunnel, and serves to drain the former area of the Lago di Bientina, which was once the largest lake in Tuscany before its reclamation. The flow rate of the Arno is irregular. It is sometimes described as having a torrentlike behaviour, because it can easily go from almost dry to near flood in a few days. At the point where the Arno leaves the Apennines, flow measurements can vary between . New dams built upstream of Florence have greatly alleviated the problem in recent years. The flood on November 4, 1966 collapsed the embankment in Florence, killing at least 40 people and damaging or destroying millions of works of art and rare books. New conservation techniques were inspired by the disaster, but even decades later hundreds of works still await restoration. Etymology From Latin Arnus (Pliny, Natural History 3.50). The philologist Hans Krahe related this toponym on a paleo-European basis *Ar-n-, derived from the Proto-Indo-European root *er-, "flow, move". Ecology The Arno river has been strongly affected by non-native species: over 90% of fish species and 70% of macroinvertebrate species in the area around Florence are alien species. These include the European catfish, channel catfish, Crucian carp, common bleak, topmouth gudgeon, New Zealand mud snail, and killer shrimp. The mud crab has been found in the river near Pisa. Uses and human impacts Water from the Arno drainage basin is used for drinking water, irrigation, and firefighting. Citizens in the central part of the drainage basin also identified flood control, support for biodiversity, fisheries, and cultural value as other services that the river provides. There is the risk that flooding will jeopardize these ecosystem services, as 9% of wastewater treatment plants, 10% of landfills or other waste sites, and 4.5% of contaminated sites are at high risk of flooding, which would produce hotspots of pollution. Gallery References External links Basin Authority of the Arno Rivers of Italy Rivers of Tuscany Geography of Florence Geography of Pisa Rivers of the Province of Arezzo Rivers of the Province of Florence Rivers of the Province of Pisa Rivers of the Province of Prato Rivers of the Apennines Drainage basins of the Tyrrhenian Sea
Amblypoda was a taxonomic hypothesis uniting a group of extinct, herbivorous mammals. They were considered a suborder of the primitive ungulate mammals and have since been shown to represent a polyphyletic group. Characteristics The Amblypoda take their name from their short and stumpy feet, which were furnished with five toes each and supported massive pillar-like limbs. The brain cavity was extremely small and insignificant in comparison to the bodily mass, which was equal to that of the largest rhinoceroses. These animals were descendants of the small ancestral ungulates that retained all the primitive characteristics of the latter, accompanied by a huge increase in body size. The Amblypoda were confined to the Paleocene and Eocene periods and occurred in North America, Asia (especially Mongolia) and Europe. The cheek teeth were short-crowned (brachyodont), with the tubercles more-or-less completely fused into transverse ridges, or cross-crests (lophodont type), and the total number of teeth was in one case the typical 44, but in another was fewer. The vertebra of the neck unite on nearly flat surfaces, the humerus had lost the foramen, or perforation, at the lower end, and the third trochanter to the femur may have also been wanting. In the forelimb, the upper and lower series of carpal (finger) bones scarcely alternated, but in the hind foot, the astragalus overlapped the cuboid, while the fibula, which was quite distinct from the tibia (as was the radius from the ulna in the forelimb), articulated with both astragalus and calcaneum. Types of amblypods The most generalized type was Coryphodon, representing the family Coryphodontidae, from the lower Eocene of Europe and North America, in which there were 44 teeth and no horn-like excrescences on the long skull, while the femur had a third trochanter. The canines were somewhat elongated and were followed by a short gap in each jaw, and the cheek-teeth were adapted for succulent food. The length of the body reached about six feet in some cases. In the middle Eocene formations of North America occurred the more specialized Uintatherium (or Dinoceras), typifying the family Uintatheriidae. Uintatheres were huge creatures with long narrow skulls, of which the elongated facial portion carried three pairs of bony horn-cores, probably covered with short horns in life, the hind-pair having been much the largest. The dental formula was i. 0/3, c. 1/1, p. 3/3·4, m. 3/3, the upper canines having been long sabre-like weapons, protected by a descending flange on each side of the lower front jaw. In the basal Eocene of North America, the Amblypoda were represented by extremely primitive, five-toed, small ungulates such as Periptychus and Pantolambda, each of these typifying a family. The full typical series of 44 teeth was developed in each, but whereas in the Periptychidae, the upper molars were bunodont and tritubercular, in the Pantolambdidae, they had assumed a selenodont structure. Creodont characters were displayed in the skeleton. Current taxonomy of animals once classified in Amblypoda Few authorities recognize Amblypoda in modern classifications. The following mammals were once considered part of this group: Order Pholidota (pangolins) Order Pantodonta Family Wangliidae Family Harpyodidae Family Bemalambdidae Family Pastoralodontidae Family Titanoideidae Family Pantolambdidae (including Pantolambda) Family Barylambdidae Family Cyriacotheriidae Family Pantolambdodontidae Family Coryphodontidae (including Coryphodon) Order Dinocerata Family Uintatheriidae (includes Uintatherium, Eobasileus, Tetheopsis, etc. Gobiatherium is sometimes placed in its own family.) Order Condylarthra Family Hyopsodontidae Family Mioclaenidae Family Phenacodontidae Family Periptychidae (including Periptychus) Family Peligrotheriidae Family Didolodontidae References Obsolete mammal taxa
Amblygonite () is a fluorophosphate mineral, , composed of lithium, sodium, aluminium, phosphate, fluoride and hydroxide. The mineral occurs in pegmatite deposits and is easily mistaken for albite and other feldspars. Its density, cleavage and flame test for lithium are diagnostic. Amblygonite forms a series with montebrasite, the low fluorine endmember. Geologic occurrence is in granite pegmatites, high-temperature tin veins, and greisens. Amblygonite occurs with spodumene, apatite, lepidolite, tourmaline, and other lithium-bearing minerals in pegmatite veins. It contains about 10% lithium, and has been utilized as a source of lithium. The chief commercial sources have historically been the deposits of California and France. History The mineral was first discovered in Saxony by August Breithaupt in 1817, and named by him from the Greek amblus, blunt, and gonia, angle, because of the obtuse angle between the cleavages. Later it was found at Montebras, Creuse, France, and at Hebron in Maine; and because of slight differences in optical character and chemical composition the names montebrasite and hebronite have been applied to the mineral from these localities. It has been discovered in considerable quantity at Pala in San Diego county, California; Caceres, Spain; and the Black Hills of South Dakota. The largest documented single crystal of amblygonite measured 7.62×2.44×1.83 m and weighed about 102 tons. Gemology Transparent amblygonite has been faceted and used as a gemstone. As a gemstone set into jewelry it is vulnerable to breakage and abrasion from general wear, as its hardness and toughness are poor. The main sources for gem material are Brazil and the United States. Australia, France, Germany, Namibia, Norway, and Spain have also produced gem quality amblygonite. See also List of minerals References Klein, Cornelis and Hurlbut, Cornelius S., 1985, Manual of Mineralogy, 20th ed., p. 362, Mindat with location data Webmineral data Mineral Galleries Sodium minerals Lithium minerals Aluminium minerals Phosphate minerals Triclinic minerals Minerals in space group 2 Gemstones
In church history, the term (from Ancient Greek: , "headless", singular from , "without", and , "head") has been applied to several sects that supposedly had no leader. E. Cobham Brewer wrote, in Dictionary of Phrase and Fable, that acephalites, "properly means men without a head." Jean Cooper wrote, in Dictionary of Christianity, that it characterizes "various schismatical Christian bodies". Among them were Nestorians who rejected the Council of Ephesus’ condemnation of Patriarch Nestorius of Constantinople, which deposed Nestorius and declared him a heretic. Fifth-century acephali Those who refused to acknowledge the authority of the Council of Chalcedon were originally called Haesitantes; the developed from among them, and, according to Blunt, the earlier name – Haesitantes – seems to have been used for only a short time. With the apparent purpose of bringing the Orthodox and heretics into unity, Patriarch Peter III of Alexandria and Patriarch Acacius of Constantinople had elaborated a new creed in which they expressly condemned both Nestorius and Eutyches, a presbyter and archimandrite, but at the same time rejected the decisions of the Council of Chalcedon. This ambiguous formula, though approved by Byzantine Emperor Zeno and imposed in his Henoticon, could only satisfy the indifferent. The term applied to a 5th-century faction among the Eutychians, who seceded from Peter, a Miaphysite, in 482, after Peter signed the Henoticon and was recognised by Zeno as the legitimate patriarch of Alexandria, by which they were "deprived of their head". They remained "without king or bishop" until they were reconciled with Coptic Orthodox Pope Mark II of Alexandria (799–819). The condemnation of Eutyches irritated the rigid Monophysites; the equivocal attitude taken towards the Council of Chalcedon appeared to them insufficient, and many of them, especially the monks, deserted Peter, preferring to be without a head, rather than remain in communion with him. Later, they joined the adherents of the non-Chalcedonian Patriarch Severus of Antioch. They were, according to Oxford English Dictionary Online, a "group of extreme Monophysites" and "were absorbed by the Jacobites". Liberatus of Carthage wrote, in , that those at the Council of Ephesus who followed neither Patriarch Cyril I of Alexandria nor Patriarch John I of Antioch were called . Esaianites were one of the sects into which the Alexandrian separated at the end of the 5th century. They were the followers of Esaias, a deacon of Palestine, who claimed to have been consecrated to the episcopal office by the Bishop Eusebius. His opponents averred that after the bishop's death, his hands had been laid upon the head of Esaias by some of his friends. were a sect of who followed Chalcedonian Patriarch Paul of Alexandria, who was deposed by a synod at Gaza, in 541, for his uncanonical consecration by the Patriarch of Constantinople, and who, after his deposition, sided with the Miaphysites. Barsanians, later called Semidalites, were a sect of at the end of the 5th century. They had no succession of priests, and professed to keep up the celebration of a valid Eucharist by placing a few crumbs of some of the bread which had been consecrated by Dioscorus into a vessel of meal, and then using as fully consecrated the bread baked from it. The Barsanuphians separated from the Acephali in the late 6th century and developed their own episcopal hierarchy. Other acephali According to Brewer, acephalites were also certain bishops exempt from the jurisdiction and discipline of their patriarch. Cooper explains that they are "priests rejecting episcopal authority or bishops that of their metropolitans." Blunt described as those clergy who were ordained with a sinecure benefice and who generally obtained their orders by paying for them, that is, by simony. The Council of Pavia, in 853, legislated its canons 18 and 23 against them, from which it appears, according to Blunt, that they were mostly chaplains to noblemen, that they produced much scandal in the Church, and that they disseminated many errors. clergy without title or benefice. According to Brewer, acephalites were also a sect of Levellers during the reign of Henry I of England who acknowledged no leader. They were, according to Oxford English Dictionary Online, "a group of free socagers having no feudal superior except the king." This usage is now considered obsolete. Notes References Further reading Christianity in late antiquity Christian denominations Christianity in the Middle Ages Nature of Jesus Christ
Anthony of Saxony (; 27 December 1755 – 6 June 1836) was a King of Saxony from the House of Wettin. He became known as Anton der Gütige ("Anthony the Kind"). He was the fifth but third surviving son of Frederick Christian, Elector of Saxony and his wife Duchess Maria Antonia of Bavaria. Early life With few chances to take part in the politics of the Electorate of Saxony or receive any land from his older brother Frederick Augustus III, Anton lived under the shadows. No Elector of Saxony after Johann Georg I gave appanages to his younger sons. During the first years of the reign of his older brother as Elector, Anthony was the third in line, preceded only by his older brother Charles. The death of Charles (8 September 1781) made him the next in line to the Electorate as Electoral Prince (de: Kurprinz); this was because all the pregnancies of the Electress Amalie, except for one daughter, ended in a stillbirth. His aunt, the Dauphine of France, had wanted to engage her daughter Marie Zéphyrine of France to Anthony; Marie Zéphyrine died in 1755 abandoning plans. Another French candidate was Marie Zéphyrine's sister Marie Clothilde (later Queen of Sardinia) but again nothing happened. In Turin on 29 September 1781 (by proxy) and again in Dresden on 24 October 1781 (in person), Anthony married firstly with the Princess Maria Carolina of Savoy, daughter of the King Victor Amadeus III of Sardinia and Maria Antonietta of Spain. Caroline died after only one year of marriage, on 28 December 1782 having succumbed to smallpox. They had no children. In Florence on 8 September 1787 (by proxy) and again in Dresden on 18 October 1787 (in person), Anthony entered his second marriage, to the Archduchess Maria Theresia of Austria (Maria Theresia Josephe Charlotte Johanna), daughter of the Grand Duke Leopold I of Tuscany, later Emperor Leopold II. Mozart's opera Don Giovanni was originally intended to be performed in honor of his bride for a visit to Prague on 14 October 1787, as she traveled between Vienna and Dresden for the in-person ceremony, and librettos were printed with mention of the names of both Anton and the archduchess. The premiere could not be arranged in time, however, so the opera The Marriage of Figaro was substituted on the express orders of the bride's uncle, the Emperor Joseph II. The choice of The Marriage of Figaro was considered improper for a new bride by many observers, and the archduchess left the opera theater early without seeing the entire work performed. Mozart complained bitterly of the intrigues surrounding this incident in a letter to his friend Gottfried von Jacquin that was written in stages between 15 October and 25 October 1787. Anthony was present in Prague in September 1791 for the first performance of Mozart's opera La clemenza di Tito, which was written as part of the coronation ceremonies of his father-in-law, the Emperor Leopold II, as King of Bohemia. The couple had four children, but none survived to the age of two: Maria Ludovika Auguste Fredericka Therese Franziska Johanna Aloysia Nepomucena Ignatia Anna Josepha Xaveria Franziska de Paula Barbara (b. Dresden, 14 March 1795 – d. Dresden, 25 April 1796) Frederick Augustus (b. and d. Dresden, 5 April 1796) Maria Johanna Ludovica Anna Amalia Nepomucena Aloysia Ignatia Xaveria Josepha Franziska de Chantal Eva Apollonia Magdalena Crescentia Vincentia (b. Dresden, 5 April 1798 – d. Dresden, 30 October 1799) Maria Theresia (b. and d. Dresden, 15 October 1799) Electress Amalie gave birth for last time in 1799 to another stillborn child. After this, it became apparent that Anthony would succeed to the Electorate of Saxony, which was raised to kingdom in 1806. King of Saxony Anthony succeeded his brother Frederick August I as King of Saxony upon the latter's death, on 5 May 1827. The 71-year-old new king was completely inexperienced in government, and hence had no intention of initiating profound changes in foreign or domestic policy. Prussian diplomats discussed granting the Prussian Rhineland (predominantly Catholic) to Anthony (a Catholic) in exchange for Lutheran Saxony in 1827, but nothing came of these talks. After the July Revolution of 1830 in France, disturbances in Saxony began in autumn. These were directed primarily against the old Constitution. Therefore, on 13 September the cabinet dismissed Count Detlev von Einsiedel, followed by Bernhard von Lindenau. Because the people wished to have a younger regent, Anthony agreed to appoint his nephew Frederick Augustus Prince Co-Regent (de: Prinz-Mitregenten). As another consequence of the disturbances, a new constitution was adopted in 1831 and came into effect on 4 September of that year. With it Saxony became a Constitutional monarchy and obtained a bi-cameral legislature and a responsible ministry, which replaced the old feudal estates. The constitution was more conservative than other constitutions existing at this time in the German Union. Nevertheless, it remained in force in Saxony until 1918. The king kept his exclusive sovereignty but was bound by the Government Business to cooperate with the Ministers and the decisions of both Chambers of the Estates (de: Kammern der Ständeversammlung) meeting. The entry of Saxony into the Zollverein in 1833 let trade, industry and traffic blossom farther. Without surviving male issue, Anthony was succeeded as king by his nephew, Frederick Augustus II. Ancestors Footnotes References Kings of Saxony Saxon princes House of Wettin Knights of the Golden Fleece of Austria 1755 births 1836 deaths Burials at Dresden Cathedral Nobility from Dresden German Roman Catholics Albertine branch Recipients of the Order of the White Eagle (Poland)
Albert III () (27 January 144312 September 1500) was a Duke of Saxony. He was nicknamed Albert the Bold or Albert the Courageous and founded the Albertine line of the House of Wettin. Biography Albert was born in Grimma as the third and youngest son (but fifth child in order of birth) of Frederick II the Gentle, Elector of Saxony, and Margarete of Austria, sister of Frederick III, Holy Roman Emperor. Later, he was a member of the Order of the Golden Fleece. After escaping from the hands of Kunz von Kaufungen, who had abducted him together with his brother Ernest, he spent some time at the court of the emperor Frederick III in Vienna. In Eger (Cheb) on 11 November 1464 Albert married Zdenka (Sidonie), daughter of George of Podebrady, King of Bohemia; but failed to obtain the Bohemian Crown on the death of George in 1471. After the death of his father in 1464, Albert and Ernest ruled their lands together, but in 1485 a division was made by the Treaty of Leipzig, and Albert received the Meissen, together with some adjoining districts, and founded the Albertine branch of the House of Wettin. Regarded as a capable soldier by the emperor, Albert (in 1475) took a prominent part in the campaign against Charles the Bold, Duke of Burgundy, and in 1487 led an expedition against Matthias Corvinus, King of Hungary, which failed owing to lack of support on the part of the emperor. From 1477 a new conflict arose with king Matthias Corvinus of Hungary who started to invade the Austrian Habsburg lands. The conflict is known as the Austrian–Hungarian War (1477–1488). The Kaiser did not succeed in persuading the German electors and other imperial estates to provide military assistance. In the spring of 1483 Frederick fled Vienna to the safe city of Wiener Neustadt, in 1485 Corvinus was able to conquer Vienna and had himself called “ Archduke of Austria ” (Dux Austriae). In August 1487, the Hungarians succeeded in taking Wiener Neustadt, the new imperial residence in eastern Lower Austria. Friedrich first had to flee to Graz and temporarily flee to Linz in Upper Austria. After the imperial war against Hungary had been decided at the Nuremberg Diet in 1487, Duke Albert was appointed as the supreme commander of the entire imperial army. He was supposed to oppose Matthias' famous standing professional army, the Black Army of Hungary. After the Hungarian occupation of Vienna, Albrecht's task was to reconquer the lost Austrian territories. However, this failed due to the poor equipment of his army, so he had to wage a difficult defensive war under adverse circumstances. Duke Albrecht knew that no decisive help was to be expected from the Reich in the near future, but that the situation in the hereditary lands would deteriorate visibly. On November 17, 1487, Duke Albrecht informed Emperor Frederick that, under the ongoing military situation in his hereditary lands, a compromise with the King of Hungary would be the only rational solution. The war came to an end with an armistice in 1488, although the Habsburgs rankled with the peace. At the beginning of December, Matthias Corvinus met with Albrecht of Saxony in Markersdorf an der Pielach, a little later an armistice was reached in St. Pölten on December 6th, which was extended several times until the death of the Hungarian king. In 1488 he was appointed Governor of the Netherlands (until 1493) and marched with the imperial forces to free the Roman king Maximilian from his imprisonment at Bruges, and when, in 1489, the King returned to Germany, Albert was left as his representative to prosecute the war against the rebels. He was successful in restoring the authority of Maximilian in Holland, Flanders, and Brabant, but failed to obtain any repayment of the large sums of money which he had spent in these campaigns. His services were rewarded in 1498 when Maximilian bestowed upon him the title of Hereditary Governor (potestat) of Friesland, but he had to make good his claim by force of arms. He had to a great extent succeeded, and was paying a visit to Saxony, when he was recalled by news of a fresh rising. The duke recaptured Groningen, but soon afterwards he died at Emden. He was buried at Meissen. Albert, who was a man of great strength and considerable skill in feats of arms, delighted in tournaments and knightly exercises. His loyalty to the emperor Frederick, and the expenses incurred in this connection, aroused some irritation among his subjects, but his rule was a period of prosperity in Saxony. Family and children With his wife Sidonie, Albrecht had nine children: Katharina (Meissen, 24 July 1468Göttingen, 10 February 1524), married firstly on 24 February 1484 in Innsbruck to Duke Sigismund of Austria, and secondly on 1497 to Duke Eric I of Brunswick-Calenberg. Georg "der Bärtige" (Meissen, 27 August 1471Dresden, 17 April 1539). Heinrich V "der Fromme" (Dresden, 16 March 1473Dresden, 18 August 1541). Frederick (Torgau, 26 October 1473Rochlitz, 14 December 1510), Grand Master of the Teutonic Knights. Anna (Dresden, 3 August 1478Dresden, 1479). Stillborn child (1479). Louis (Torgau, 28 September 1481Torgau?, some days later / Torgau?, young after 1498) [?]. John (born and died Torgau, 24 June 1484). John (Torgau, 2 December 1498Torgau?, some days later / Torgau?, young in September of the same year as his brother Louis) [?]. Ancestry References |- |- 1443 births 1500 deaths People from Grimma Dukes of Saxony Knights of the Golden Fleece House of Wettin Potestaats of Friesland Saxon princes Albertine branch
The Book of Alma: The Son of Alma (), usually referred to as the Book of Alma, is one of the books that make up the Book of Mormon. The title refers to Alma the Younger, a prophet and "chief judge" of the Nephites. Alma is the longest book in the Book of Mormon and consists of sixty-three chapters, taking up almost a third of the volume. Narrative Historical outline The Book of Alma is the longest of all the books of the Book of Mormon, consisting of 63 chapters. The book records the first 39 years of what the Nephites termed "the reign of the judges", a period in which the Nephite nation adopted a constitutional theocratic government in which the judicial and executive branches of the government were combined. The history of the book is outlined as follows: Challenges to the beginning of the republic The first four chapters describe the rebellions of followers of Nehor and Amlici. Contrary to the dominant lay ministry that existed in the Nephite culture, Nehor established a church that taught universal salvation in which priests were given separate social status and were paid for their ministry. After killing a religious leader during a theological argument, Nehor was tried and executed for his crimes. The followers of Amlici resented the dominant political and religious parties and sought to reestablish the monarchy that the reign of the judges had replaced. Alma, who was chief judge, governor, and high priest over the people of Nephi, led an army against Amlici and his followers and drove the rebellion out of the land. Ministry of Alma among the Nephites Towards the end of chapter four, Alma realizes that the affairs of the Church require his entire concentration. He resigns from his political office and appoints Nephihah as chief judge and governor of the land. Chapters 5–16 record sermons and missionary travels of Alma between 83 and 78 BC. Alma and one of his converted followers, Amulek, provide important teachings about the atonement of Christ, overcoming pride and the natural man, retaining conversion, the resurrection of all men, and judgment day. Later, their teachings about faith and worship in Alma 32-34 are important sources of instruction and insight. Ministry of the sons of Mosiah among the Lamanites Chapters 17 to 27 describe the missionary labors of the sons of King Mosiah II who was the last king over the people of Nephi before the peaceful transition of the nation from a monarchy to a republican form of government. The sons of Mosiah, named Ammon, Aaron, Omner and Himni, chose to devote themselves to missionary labors preaching to the people of the Lamanite nation, which periodically went to war against the Nephite nation. They lived and taught among the Lamanites between the years 91 and 77 BC. Ministry of Alma among the Zoramites Chapters 28 to 35 relate the account of a rebellion of a subgroup of the Nephite nation, who called themselves Zoramites. The Zoramites believed in a form of predestination and taught that all others except their people would be damned. Their apostasy from the Church was conspiring against the plans to rebel against the Nephite government. Alma took two of his sons, the sons of Mosiah, Amulek, and Zeezrom on a mission among the Zoramites in an attempt to restore their loyalty to both the Church and the state. Alma and his companions had some success among the poor class of Zoramites who were then exiled from the Zoramite community by the governing rich class of Zoramites. The wealthier Zoramites eventually defected and united with the Lamanites. Commandments of Alma to his children Chapters 36 to 42 record the teachings of Alma to his sons, Helaman, Shiblon, and Corianton. These teachings discuss the ministry and atonement of Jesus, the laws of justice and mercy, the need for repentance, and the resurrection and judgment of all people. Period of war Chapters 43 to 62 record the struggles of the Nephite people during a war against the attacking Lamanite nation between the years of 74 and 57 BC. The Chief Captain (senior military commander) of the Nephites during this time was Captain Moroni. The Nephites were ultimately successful in their defense against the Lamanites. Conclusion Chapter 63 includes concluding historical notes covering the years 56 to 53 BC. This is largely a period of post-war reconstruction and exploration in the Nephite nation. Simple outline This outline is based on main sections and antagonist characters in the Book of Alma. There are two main features in this history, chapters 1 - 42 deal with Missionary Work, and chapters 43 - 63 contain the Wars. The history of the Zoramites provides a transition from Missionary Work to the War chapters of the Book of Alma. The two main sections also mirror the first two antagonist characters, Nehor (religious agenda) and Amlici (political agenda). Mission chapters () Nehor: rebels against the Church () Amlici: rebels against the Republic () Korihor: the antichrist () Zoramites () Zoram: the Apostate Nephites religious () Zerahemnah: the war leader of the Zoramites political () War chapters () Amalickiah: the man who wants to be king () Ammoron: the vengeful brother of Amalickiah () Characters Protagonist Alma the Younger Gideon Nephihah Sons of Mosiah Ammon Aaron3 Omner Himni Amulek Zoram2 Ammon Melek Lehonti Helaman Shiblon Corianton Captain Moroni Two thousand stripling warriors Teancum Laman4 Gid Teomner Pahoran Hagoth Moronihah Antagonist Nehor Amlici Korihor Zoram Zerahemnah Amalickiah Morianton Ammoron King-men Gidoni Converts Zeezrom Lamoni Anti-Nephi-Lehi Doctrine 50 questions of Alma In , Alma the Younger speaks to the people of Zarahemla in which he asks 50 rhetorical questions, which are widely cited in the LDS church. Faith as a seed Alma's sermon on faith to the Zoramites in is widely used to explain the process of developing faith. Investigators are invited to try a similar experiment of faith in order to come to develop a testimony. It is worth noting that Alma doesn't compare faith to a seed, he compares the word to a seed (), although this is a common misconception. Nephite temple ceremony According to John W. Welch, based on the appearance of the following elements in Alma 12–13, the Nephite temple ceremony utilized familiar temple motifs, including: Abundant creation imagery regarding the fall of Adam and Eve () The redemption () The issuance of commandments () One's calling () Clothing () The facing of judgment () Symbolic entrance into the presence of God (; ) Notes Further reading . External links Story of the Book of Mormon - Alma: An educational summary of this book Alma
BearShare was a peer-to-peer-file-sharing-application originally created by Free Peers, Inc. for Microsoft Windows and also a rebranded version of iMesh by MusicLab, LLC, tightly integrated with their music subscription service. History The principal operators of Free Peers, Inc. were Vincent Falco and Louis Tatta. Bearshare was launched on December 4, 2000 as a Gnutella-based peer-to-peer file sharing application with innovative features that eventually grew to include IRC, a free library of software and media called BearShare Featured Artists, online help pages and a support forum integrated as dedicated web browser windows in the application; as well as a media player and a library window to organize the user's media collection. Following the June 27, 2005 United States Supreme Court decision on the MGM Studios, Inc. v. Grokster, Ltd. case the BearShare Community support forums were abruptly closed during negotiations to settle an impending lawsuit with the RIAA. The webmaster and forum administrator immediately created a new site called Technutopia and the same support staff continue to support the gnutella versions from there. A few months later the unused Community window was removed from BearShare 5.1. On May 4, 2006, Free Peers agreed to transfer all their BearShare-related assets to MusicLab, LLC (an iMesh subsidiary) and use the $30 million raised from that sale to settle with the RIAA. On August 17, 2006, MusicLab released a reskinned and updated version of iMesh named BearSharev6 which connected to its proprietary iMesh network instead of gnutella. BearShareV6 and its successors offer paid music downloads in the PlaysForSure DRM controlled WMA format as well as free content in various formats, chiefly MP3. Like BearShare they also include a media player and embedded online and social networking features but with a Web 2.0 style, somewhat similar to MySpace or Facebook. Free content provided by users is automatically verified using acoustic fingerprinting as non-infringing before it can be shared. Video files more than 50 Mb in size and 15 minutes in length cannot be shared, ensuring television shows and feature-length movies cannot be distributed over the network. Only a limited set of music and video file types can be shared, thus excluding everything else like executable files, documents and compressed archives. In August 2006, MusicLab released a variant of the original BearShare gnutella servant, called BearFlix, which was altered to limit sharing, searches and downloads to images and videos. Shared videos were limited in length and duration, similar to limits in BearShareV6. The first release was version 1.2.1. Its version numbers appear to start from 1.1.2.1 in the user interface but it presents itself on the gnutella network as versions 6.1.2.1 to 6.2.2.530. This version has since been discontinued by MusicLab and no longer available on their websites; however, it remains in wide usage. On October 27, 2008, responding to uncertainty around the future of PlaysForSure, MusicLab added iPod support in BearShareV7. As of June 12, 2016, BearShare is no longer available to download. The official page with a message announcing its discontinuation remained active until March 2017. Popular versions Three variants of the original BearShare gnutella servant were distributed by Free Peers: Free, Lite, and Pro. The Free-version had higher performance limits than the Lite version but contained some adware. The Pro version had higher limits than both the Free and Lite versions but cost US$24. Version numbers in this series ranged from 1.0 to 5.2.5.9. Though lacking MusicLab's support a wide spread of BearShare versions from 4.7 to 5.2.5.6 remain the second most popular servant on gnutella, alongside LimeWire. Old-School fans of the gnutella versions tend to favour the last of the beta versions, 5.1.0 beta25, because it has no adware, is hard-coded for performance levels roughly between Pro and regular (ad-supported) versions and has the unique ability to switch between leaf and ultrapeer mode on demand, a feature deemed necessary for effective testing. No other gnutella servant has enjoyed this capability. The most recent MusicLab version, V10, was available by free download from their support website and "Pro" features could be unlocked with a six or twelve-month subscription. Access to premium content required a $9.95 monthly subscription. Customers in Canada and the U.S.A. could opt for a $14.95 monthly "BearShare ToGo" subscription which allowed downloads of premium music to portable music players. References External links BearShare Official Website McAfee's Bearshare website Analysis BearShare forums (at GnutellaForums.com) BearShare original (V5 or before) support staff and community Windows-only proprietary software 2000 software File sharing software Online music stores of the United States Software companies disestablished in 2016
BLM most commonly refers to: Black Lives Matter, an international anti-racism movement and organization Bureau of Land Management, a U.S. federal government agency BLM may also refer to: Organizations BLM (law firm), United Kingdom and Ireland Blue Lives Matter, an American pro-police movement Black Lives Matter Global Network Foundation Places Administrative divisions Saint Barthélemy's ISO 3166-1 alpha-3 country code Buildings BLM Geothermal Plant, a near Ridgecrest, California, United States BLM Group Arena, Trento, Trentino, Italy Braunschweigisches Landesmuseum, a history museum in Brunswick, Lower Saxony, Germany Science and technology Biotic Ligand Model, toxicology tool Black lipid membranes, in cell biology Bleomycin, a cancer medication Bloom syndrome protein, in genetics BLM protein, a helicase Basic Language Machine, an early 1960s computer by John Iliffe Transportation Belmont railway station (Sutton), London, England, National Rail station code Bergbahn Lauterbrunnen-Mürren, a railway line in Switzerland Blue Sky Airlines, a defunct Armenian airline, ICAO code Monmouth Executive Airport, New Jersey, US, IATA code
Bluegrass or Blue Grass may refer to: Plants Bluegrass (grass), several species of grasses of the genus Poa Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis), one well-known species of the genus Arts and media Bluegrass music, a form of American roots music Bluegrass (Sirius), a bluegrass music satellite radio channel Bluegrass Films, an independent film studio based in Los Angeles Places Blue Grass, Iowa, a city in the United States Blue Grass, Minnesota, an unincorporated settlement in the United States Blue Grass, Virginia, an unincorporated settlement in the United States Bluegrass region, a geographic region in the US state of Kentucky Blue Grass Airport, an airport in Fayette county, Kentucky Other uses Blue Grass, a 1915 film with Thomas A. Wise Blue Grass Army Depot, a munitions storage depot in Richmond, Kentucky Blue Grass, a brand name used by Belknap Hardware and Manufacturing Company Bluegrass, a passenger train of the Monon Railroad See also
In common law legal systems, black-letter law refers to well-established legal rules that are no longer subject to reasonable dispute. For example, it is "black-letter law" that the formation of a contract requires consideration, or that the registration of a trademark requires established use in the course of trade. Black-letter law can be contrasted with legal theory or unsettled legal issues. History and etymology In an 1831 case in the U.S. Supreme Court, Jackson ex dem. Bradstreet v. Huntington, the phrase "black letter" was used: "It is seldom that a case in our time savours so much of the black letter; but the course of decisions in New York renders it unavoidable...". The phrase "black-letter law" was used in the Pennsylvania Supreme Court case Naglee v. Ingersoll, 7 Pa. 185 (1847). The phrase does not come from association with Black's Law Dictionary, which was first published in 1891. Instead, it refers to the practice of setting law books and citing legal precedents in blackletter type, a tradition that survived long after the switch to Roman and italic text for other printed works. The phrase definitely refers to a distillation of the common law into general and accepted legal principles. This can be seen in the quote above from the Supreme Court where the court is noting that while the black letter law is clear, New York precedent deviates from the general principles. In the common law, the informal notion of black letter law includes the basic principles of law generally accepted by the courts and/or embodied in the statutes of a particular jurisdiction. The letter of the law is its actual implementation, thereby demonstrating that black letter laws are those statutes, rules, acts, laws, provisions, etc. that are or have been written down, codified, or indicated somewhere in legal texts throughout history of specific state law. This is often the case for many precedents that have been set in the common law. An example of such a state within the common law jurisdiction, and using the black letter legal doctrine is Canada. Canada is a monarchical state, with its roots invested in Colonial England, and black letter law is the principles of law accepted by the majority of judges in most provinces and territories. Sometimes it is referred to as "hornbook law" meaning treatise or textbook, often relied upon as authoritative, competent, and generally accepted in the field of Canadian law. In lawyer lingo, hornbook law or black letter law is a fundamental and well-accepted legal principle that does not require any further explanation, since a hornbook is a primer of basics. Law is the rule which establish that a principle, provision, references, inference, observation, etc. may not require further explanation or clarification when the very nature of them shows that they are basic and elementary. Similar phrases The phrase is nearly synonymous with the phrase "hornbook law". There are a number of venerable legal sources that distill the common law on various subjects known as Restatement of the Law. The specific titles will be "The Restatement (First) of Contracts" or "The Restatement of Agency" etc. Each of these volumes is divided into sections that begin with a text in boldface that summarizes a basic rule on an aspect of the law of contracts, agency etc. This "restatement" is followed by commentary and examples that expand on the principle stated. Another synonymous term, usually used in the United Kingdom is "trite law". References Informal legal terminology
Bar or BAR may refer to: Food and drink Bar (establishment), selling alcoholic beverages Candy bar Chocolate bar Science and technology Bar (river morphology), a deposit of sediment Bar (tropical cyclone), a layer of cloud Bar (unit), a unit of pressure BAR domain, a protein domain Bar stock, of metal Sandbar Computing Bar (computer science), a placeholder Base Address Register in PCI Bar, a mobile phone form factor Bar, a type of graphical control element Law Bar (law), the legal profession Bar association Bar examination Media and entertainment Bar (Croatian TV series) Bar (Czech TV series) Bar (dance), Turkey Bar (music), a segment Bar (Polish TV series) Bar (Slovenian TV series) Bay Area Reporter, a newspaper Biblical Archaeology Review, a magazine "Bar" (song), by Tini and L-Gante B.A.R. (Bay Area Representatives), 2014 album by Lil Wyte and Frayser Boy Places Bar (Martian crater) Bar, Rutog County, Tibet, China Bar (river), France Bar, Corrèze, France, a commune Bar-le-Duc, France, a commune formerly Bar, Meuse Bar-sur-Aube, France, a commune Bar-sur-Seine, France, a commune Bár, Hungary, a village Bar, Bushehr, Iran, a village Bar, Hormozgan, Iran, a village Bar, Razavi Khorasan, Iran, a city Bar Municipality, Montenegro Bar, Montenegro, a town Bar Region, Punjab, Pakistan Bar, Republic of Buryatia, Russia Bar, Vinnytsia Oblast, Ukraine, a town Duchy of Bar, part of the Holy Roman Empire Barbados, IOC and UNDP country code BAR Language Bar (diacritic), a line through a letter Bavarian language (ISO 639-3: bar) Vertical bar, a punctuation symbol X-bar theory, in linguistics Transportation Bangor and Aroostook Railroad, US, reporting mark Barstow station, US, station code California Bureau of Automotive Repair, a consumer protection agency Qionghai Bo'ao Airport, IATA code Firearms M1918 Browning Automatic Rifle Browning BAR, a Belgian rifle Other uses Bar (Aramaic), a patronymic prefix in Aramaic Bar (heraldry), a band across a shield Bar (name) Bar Confederation, an 18th-century Polish association Bar Mitzvah, a Jewish coming of age ceremony Blaauwberg Armoured Regiment, South African Army British Archaeological Reports British American Racing, a Formula One constructor Chin-up bar, playground equipment Medal bar, additional award Space bar, on a keyboard Historical gatehouse Bennett acceptance ratio in thermodynamics BlackArts Racing Team, a motor racing team from Hong Kong See also The Bar (disambiguation) Barr (disambiguation) Barre (disambiguation) Bars (disambiguation) Bär (disambiguation) FUBAR
Johann Sebastian Bach (1685–1750) was a German composer of the Baroque period. Bach may also refer to: People Bach (surname) Bach family, a noted family in music Bach (actor), stage name of French actor, singer and music hall performer Charles-Joseph Pasquier (1882–1953) Sebastian Bach (born 1968), stage name of Canadian heavy metal singer Sebastian Bierk King Bach, American actor, comedian, and Internet personality Bill Bachrach (1879–1959), American swim coach known as "Bach" Joel Sirkis (1561–1640), Polish posek and halakhist, known as "the Bach" P. D. Q. Bach (1807–1742), a fictitious composer invented by musical satirist Peter Schickele Nigel Bach, the nom de plume of Tom Fanslau, the creator of the Bad Ben series Places Bach, Austria, a municipality in Reutte Bach, Lot, a commune in France Bach an der Donau, a town in Regensburg, Bavaria, Germany Bäch, a settlement of the Freienbach municipality in Schwyz, Switzerland Bäch railway station, in Freienbach, Switzerland Bach, Michigan, US, an unincorporated community Bach Ice Shelf, on Alexander Island, Antarctica Bach quadrangle, on the planet Mercury Bach (crater), on the planet Mercury 1814 Bach, an asteroid Radio stations WBQK, a radio station licensed to West Point, Virginia, US, known as Bach FM WLTT, a defunct radio station formerly licensed to Carolina Beach, North Carolina, US, known as Bach FM from 2011 to 2013 Other uses Bach Gesellschaft, an 1850 society for publishing J.S. Bach's complete works Bach (journal), an academic journal of Baroque music BACH motif, a sequence of notes Bach (New Zealand), a modest holiday home or beach house Brown Association for Cooperative Housing, in Providence, Rhode Island, United States Bach Aircraft, an aircraft manufacturer from 1927 to 1931 Bach-Werke-Verzeichnis (abbreviated BWV), a catalogue of compositions by J.S. Bach Quarry Bach, a slate quarry near Cilgerran, Wales See also Bache (disambiguation) Bach House (disambiguation) Batch (disambiguation) Bạch, a Vietnamese surname Bachs, a municipality in the canton of Zürich, Switzerland
Beadwork is the art or craft of attaching beads to one another by stringing them onto a thread or thin wire with a sewing or beading needle or sewing them to cloth. Beads are produced in a diverse range of materials, shapes, and sizes, and vary by the kind of art produced. Most often, beadwork is a form of personal adornment (e.g. jewelry), but it also commonly makes up other artworks. Beadwork techniques are broadly divided into several categories, including loom and off-loom weaving, stringing, bead embroidery, bead crochet, bead knitting, and bead tatting. Ancient beading The art of creating and utilizing beads is ancient, and ostrich shell beads discovered in Africa can be carbon-dated to 10,000 BC. Faience beads, a type of ceramic created by mixing powdered clays, lime, soda, and silica sand with water until a paste forms, then molding it around a stick or straw and firing until hard, were notably used in ancient Egyptian jewelry from the First Dynasty (beginning in the early Bronze Age) onward. Faience and other ceramic beads with vitrified quartz coatings predate pure glass beads. Beads and work created with them were found near-ubiquitously across the ancient world, often made of locally available materials. For example, the Athabaskan peoples of Alaska used tusk shells (scaphopod mollusks), which are naturally hollow, as beads and incorporated them into elaborate jewelry. Beadwork has historically been used for religious purposes, as good luck talismans, for barter and trade, and for ritual exchange. Modern beading Today, beadwork is commonly practiced by jewelers, hobbyists, and contemporary artists; artists known for using beadwork as a medium include Liza Lou, Ran Hwang, Hew Locke, Jeffery Gibson, and Joyce J. Scott. Some ancient stitches have become especially popular among contemporary artists. The off-loom peyote stitch, for example, is used in Native American Church members' beadwork. European beadwork Beadwork in Europe, much like in Egypt and the Americas, can be traced to the use of bone and shell as adornments amongst early modern humans. As glassmaking increased in popularity through the Middle Ages, glass beads began to appear extensively in bead embroidery, beaded necklaces, and similar wares. By 1291, artists in Murano, Italy had begun production of intricate glass Murano beads inspired by Venetian glassware. With the advent of lampwork glass, Europeans started producing seed beads for embroidery, crochet, and other, mostly off-loom techniques. Czech seed beads are among the most popular contemporary bead styles. One technique of European beadwork is beaded "immortal" flowers. The technique's origins, though indistinct, are generally agreed to range at least several centuries back, as far back as at least the 16th if not 14th century. Two mayor styles were developed: French beading, in which the wire only goes through each bead once and the wires are arranged vertically, and Victorian (also called English or Russian) beading, in which the wires go through each bead twice and are arranged horizontally. In the late 19th and early 20th century, the beaded flowers were used to create long lasting funeral wreaths, called (French for "immortals"). In the mid-20th century, the art was introduced to United States with sales of flower beading kits. In 1960s to 1970s, books by emerging beaded flower designers emerged. In the 1990s and 2000s, there was another revival of interest in the craft, exemplified for example by the funeral wreaths made to commemorate September 11 attacks victims. Beadwork is a central component of the traditional dress of many European peoples. In Northern Russia, for example, the Kokoshnik headdress typically includes river pearl netting around the forehead in addition to traditional bead embroidery. Native American beadwork Native American beadwork, already established via the use of materials like shells, dendrite, claws, and bone, evolved to incorporate glass beads as Europeans brought them to the Americas beginning in the early 17th century. Native beadwork today heavily utilizes small glass beads, but artists also continue to use traditionally important materials. Wampum shells, for instance, are ceremonially and politically important to a range of Eastern Woodlands tribes, and are used to depict important events. Several Native American artists from a wide range of nations are considered to be at the forefront of modern American bead working. These artists include Teri Greeves (Kiowa, known for beaded commentaries on Native voting rights), Marcus Amerman (Choctaw, known for realistic beaded portraits of historical figures and celebrities), and Jamie Okuma (Luiseño-Shoshone-Bannock, known for beaded dolls). Great Lakes tribes Ursuline nuns in the Great Lakes introduced floral patterns to young Indigenous women, who quickly applied them to beadwork. Ojibwe women in the area created ornately decorated shoulder bags known as gashkibidaagan (bandolier bags). Eastern Woodlands tribes Innu, Mi'kmaq, Penobscot, and Haudenosaunee peoples developed, and are known for, beading symmetrical scroll motifs, most often in white beads. Tribes of the Iroqouis Confederacy practice raised beading, where threads are pulled taut to force beads into a bas-relief, which creates a three-dimensional effect. Southeastern tribes Southeastern tribes pioneered a beadwork style that features images with white outlines, a visual reference to the shells and pearls coastal Southeasterners used pre-contact. This style was nearly lost during the Trail of Tears, as many beadworkers died during their forced removal to Indian Territory west of the Mississippi River. Roger Amerman (Choctaw, brother of Marcus Amerman) and Martha Berry (Cherokee) have effectively revived the style, however. Sierra Madre tribes Huichol communities in the Mexican states of Jalisco and Nayarit uniquely attach their beads to objects and surfaces via the use of a resin-beeswax mixture (in lieu of wire or waxed thread). African beadwork Several African nations outside of Egypt have beadwork traditions. Aggry (also spelled aggri or aggrey) beads, a type of decorated glass bead, are used by Ghanaians and other West Africans to make necklaces and bracelets that may be traded for other goods. These beads are often believed to have magical medicinal of fertility powers. In Mauritania, powder-glass Kiffa beads represent a beading tradition that may date as far back as 1200 CE; a group of women have been revitalizing the craft after the last traditional Kiffa artisans died in the 1970s. Cameroonian women are known for crafting wooden sculptures covered in beadwork. See also Glass beadmaking Murano beads Bead embroidery Beadweaving References Dubin, Lois Sherr (1999). North American Indian Jewelry and Adornment: From Prehistory to the Present. New York: Harry N. Abrams. Dubin, Lois Sherr (2009). The History of Beads: From 100,000 B.C. to the Present. New York: Harry N. Abrams. . Beads and beadwork. (1996). In Encyclopedia of north american indians, Houghton Mifflin. Retrieved 27 January 2014, from http://search.credoreference.com/ External links Handicrafts Decorative arts Articles containing video clips
Bead weaving (or beadweaving) is a set of techniques for weaving sheets and objects of seed beads. Threads are strung through and/or around the beads to hold them together. It can be done either on a loom or using one of a number of off-loom stitches. On-loom beadweaving When weaving on a loom, the beads are strung on the weft threads and locked in between the warp threads. Although loomed pieces are typically rectangular, it is possible to increase and decrease to produce angular or curvy shapes. Fringe can also be added during weaving or before the piece is removed from the loom. Frame looms The most common modern loom bead weaving technique requires two passes of the weft thread per row of beads. First, an entire row of beads is strung on the weft thread. Then the beads are pressed in between the warp threads from below. Then the needle is passed back through the beads, but above the warp threads, to lock the beads into place. Bead looms vary in size and are typically made of wood or metal. Usually, a comb or spring is used to hold the warp threads a bead-width apart (the lede image shows a threaded rod). Some looms have roller bars; these allow the weaver to produce pieces that are longer than the loom. Most looms are meant to sit on a table, but some have floor stands or are meant to sit in the lap. Cheap bead looms are sometimes made from styrofoam trays, wrapping the warp through evenly-spaced small slits notched into opposite edges. Heddle looms Heddle bead looms were popular in the United States near the beginning of the 20th century. They allow weaving of beads by raising every other thread and inserting strung beads in the shed, the space between the lowered and raised threads. There are still a few heddle bead looms being manufactured today. The most difficult part of loomwork is finishing off the warp threads. Off-loom beadweaving Off-loom beadweaving is a family of beadwork techniques in which seed beads are woven together into a flat fabric, a tubular rope, or a three-dimensional object such as a ball, clasp, box, or a piece of jewelry. Most off-loom techniques can be accomplished using a single needle and thread (no warp threads), and some have two-needle variations. Different stitches produce pieces with distinct textures, shapes, and patterns. There are many different off-loom bead stitches, including new stitches (distinct thread paths) published as recently as 2015: albion stitch, developed by Heather Kingsley-Heath, published May 2009 brick stitch, also known as Comanche or Cheyenne stitch chevron stitch, a triangular form of bead netting diamond weave, developed over a number of years by Gerlinde Lenz, published August 2015 herringbone stitch, also known as Ndebele stitch hubble stitch and wave hubble stitch, created and developed by Melanie de Miguel, published 2015 netting, to avoid confusion specifically bead netting peyote stitch, also known as gourd stitch plaiting, crossing multiple threads as in a plait or braid, using beads to connect the crossings pondo stitch, also known as African circle stitch right-angle weave Saint Petersburg chain square stitch, an off loom stitch that mimics the look of loomed bead projects. ladder stitch, a foundation stitch that is used to build a base for brick stitch or herringbone stitch. triangle weave Spiral Bead Weaving Stitches Cellini spiral, a tubular peyote stitch Dutch spiral African helix Russian spiral Chenille See also Glass beadmaking Beadwork Bead embroidery Bead knitting Bead crochet Quillwork References Further reading Virginia Blakelock, Those Bad, Bad Beads! Virginia Blakelock Publisher, 1990. Don Pierce, Beading on a Loom. Interweave Press, 1999. Carol Wilcox Wells, Creative Bead Weaving. Lark Books, 1996. Weaving Beadwork
Branchiopoda is a class of crustaceans. It comprises fairy shrimp, clam shrimp, Diplostraca (or Cladocera), Notostraca and the Devonian Lepidocaris. They are mostly small, freshwater animals that feed on plankton and detritus. Description Members of the Branchiopoda are unified by the presence of gills on many of the animals' appendages, including some of the mouthparts. This is also responsible for the name of the group (from the , gills, akin to , windpipe; , foot). They generally possess compound eyes and a carapace, which may be a shell of two valves enclosing the trunk (as in most Cladocera), broad and shallow (as in the Notostraca), or entirely absent (as in the Anostraca). In the groups where the carapace prevents the use of the trunk limbs for swimming (Cladocera, clam shrimp and the extinct Lipostraca), the antennae are used for locomotion, as they are in the nauplius. Male fairy shrimp have an enlarged pair of antennae with which they grasp the female during mating, while the bottom-feeding Notostraca, the antennae are reduced to vestiges. The trunk limbs are beaten in a metachronal rhythm, causing a flow of water along the midline of the animal, from which it derives oxygen, food and, in the case of the Anostraca and Notostraca, movement. Ecology Branchiopods are found in continental fresh water, including temporary pools and in hypersaline lakes, and some in brackish water. Only in two groups of water fleas do we find marine species: Family Podonidae in the order Diplostraca, and family Sididae in the order Diplostraca. Most branchiopodans eat floating detritus or plankton, which they take using the setae on their appendages. But notostracans are omnivorous and very opportunistic feeders and will eat algae and bacteria in addition to animals as both predators and scavengers. Taxonomy In early taxonomic treatments, the current members of the Branchiopoda were all placed in a single genus, Monoculus. The taxon Branchiopoda was erected by Pierre André Latreille in 1817, initially at the rank of order. The current upper-level classification of Branchiopoda, according to the World Register of Marine Species (2021), is as follows: Class Branchiopoda Latreille, 1817 Subclass Sarsostraca Tasch, 1969 Order Anostraca Sars, 1867 Suborder Anostracina Weekers et al., 2002 Suborder Artemiina Weekers et al., 2002 Subclass Phyllopoda Preuss, 1951 Superorder Diplostraca Gerstaecker, 1866 Order Anomopoda G.O. Sars, 1865 Order Ctenopoda G.O. Sars, 1865 Order Cyclestherida Sars G.O., 1899 Order Haplopoda G.O. Sars, 1865 Order Laevicaudata Linder, 1945 Order Onychopoda G.O. Sars, 1865 Order Spinicaudata Linder, 1945 Order Notostraca G. O. Sars, 1867 Genus †Cryptocaris Barrande, 1872 Genus †Dithyrocaris In addition, the extinct genus Lepidocaris is generally placed in Branchiopoda. Anostraca The fairy shrimp of the order Anostraca are usually long (exceptionally up to ). Most species have 20 body segments, bearing 11 pairs of leaf-like phyllopodia (swimming legs), and the body lacks a carapace. They live in vernal pools and hypersaline lakes across the world, including pools in deserts, in ice-covered mountain lakes and in Antarctica. They swim "upside-down" and feed by filtering organic particles from the water or by scraping algae from surfaces. They are an important food for many birds and fish, and are cultured and harvested for use as fish food. There are 300 species spread across 8 families. Lipostraca Lipostraca contains a single extinct Early Devonian species, Lepidocaris rhyniensis, which is the most abundant animal in the Rhynie chert deposits. It resembles modern Anostraca, to which it is probably closely related, although its relationships to other orders remain unclear. The body is long, with 23 body segments and 19 pairs of appendages, but no carapace. It occurred chiefly among charophytes, probably in alkaline temporary pools. Notostraca The order Notostraca comprises the single family Triopsidae, containing the tadpole shrimp or shield shrimp. The two genera, Triops and Lepidurus, are considered living fossils, having not changed significantly in outward form since the Triassic. They have a broad, flat carapace, which conceals the head and bears a single pair of compound eyes. The abdomen is long, appears to be segmented and bears numerous pairs of flattened legs. The telson is flanked by a pair of long, thin caudal rami. Phenotypic plasticity within taxa makes species-level identification difficult, and is further compounded by variation in the mode of reproduction. The evidence of phenotypic plasticity of Arctic tadpole shrimp (Lepidurus arcticus, Notostraca) has been observed in Svalbard. Notostracans are the largest branchiopodans and are omnivores living on the bottom of temporary pools, ponds and shallow lakes. Laevicaudata, Spinicaudata and Cyclestherida (once Conchostraca) Clam shrimp are bivalved animals which have lived since at least the Devonian. The three groups are not believed to form a clade. They have 10–32 trunk segments, decreasing in size from front to back, and each bears a pair of legs which also carry gills. A strong muscle can close the two halves of the shell together. Anomopoda, Ctenopoda, Onychopoda, and Haplopoda (once Cladocera) These four orders make up a group of small crustaceans commonly called water fleas. Around 620 species have been recognised so far, with many more undescribed. They are ubiquitous in inland aquatic habitats, but rare in the oceans. Most are long, with a down-turned head, and a carapace covering the apparently unsegmented thorax and abdomen. There is a single median compound eye. Most species show cyclical parthenogenesis, where asexual reproduction is occasionally supplemented by sexual reproduction, which produces resting eggs that allow the species to survive harsh conditions and disperse to distant habitats. In the water bodies of the world, a lot of Cladocera are non-native species, many of which pose a great threat to aquatic ecosystems. Evolution The fossil record of branchiopods extends back at least into the Upper Cambrian and possibly further. The group is thought to be monophyletic, with the Anostraca having been the first group to branch off. It is thought that the group evolved in the seas, but was forced into temporary pools and hypersaline lakes by the evolution of bony fishes. Although they were previously considered the sister group to the remaining crustaceans, it is now widely accepted that crustaceans form a paraphyletic group, and Branchiopoda are thought to be sister to a clade comprising Xenocarida (Remipedia and Cephalocarida) and Hexapoda (insects and their relatives). See also Vladicaris References Arthropod classes Extant Cambrian first appearances Taxa named by Pierre André Latreille
In card games, a burn card is a playing card dealt from the top of a deck, and discarded ("burned"), unused by the players. Burn cards are usually not shown to the players. Burning is most often performed in casinos to deter a form of cheating known as card marking. In poker, for example, the top card of the deck stub is burned at the beginning of each betting round, so that players who might have been able to read markings on that card during the previous round are less able to take advantage of that information. Knowledge of a burn card might be marginally useful, such as knowing there is one fewer Ace in the deck, but far less so than knowing it is about to be in play. Two other uses for burning are: to prevent second dealing and to provide extra cards for use when an irregularity of play occurs. Sometimes a misdealt card (such as one of the down cards in poker that has flashed during the deal) will be used as the burn card – in those cases, the card should be immediately placed face up on the deck after the deal is complete. When Texas hold 'em (as well as in Omaha hold 'em) is played in casinos (or other formal games where cheating is a concern), a card is burned before dealing the flop, turn, and river, for a maximum of 3 total burn cards. References Poker gameplay and terminology
A biennial plant is a flowering plant that, generally in a temperate climate, takes two years to complete its biological life cycle. In its first year, the biennial plant undergoes primary growth, during which its vegetative structures (leaves, stems, and roots) develop. Usually, the stem of the plant remains short and the leaves are low to the ground, forming a rosette. After one year's growing season, the plant enters a period of dormancy for the colder months. Many biennials require a cold treatment, or vernalization before they will flower. During the next spring or summer, the stem of the biennial plant elongates greatly, or "bolts". The plant then flowers, producing fruits and seeds before it finally dies. There are far fewer biennials than either perennial plants or annual plants. Biennials do not always follow a strict two-year life cycle and the majority of plants in the wild can take 3 or more years to fully mature. Rosette leaf size has been found to predict when a plant may enter its second stage of flowering and seed production. Alternatively, under extreme climatic conditions, a biennial plant may complete its life cycle rapidly (e.g., in three months instead of two years). This is quite common in vegetable or flower seedlings that were vernalized before they were planted in the ground. This behavior leads to many normally biennial plants being treated as annuals in some areas. Conversely, an annual grown under extremely favorable conditions may have highly successful seed propagation, giving it the appearance of being biennial or perennial. Some short-lived perennials may appear to be biennial rather than perennial. True biennials flower only once, while many perennials will flower every year once mature. Biennials grown for flowers, fruits, or seeds are grown for two years, whereas those grown for edible leaves or roots are harvested after one year—and are not kept a second year to run to seed. Examples of biennial plants are members of the onion family including leek, some members of the cabbage family, common mullein, parsley, fennel, Lunaria, silverbeet, black-eyed Susan, sweet William, colic weed, carrot, and some hollyhocks. Plant breeders have produced annual cultivars of several biennials that will flower the first year from seed, for example, foxglove and stock. See also References Garden plants
Basis may refer to: Finance and accounting Adjusted basis, the net cost of an asset after adjusting for various tax-related items Basis point, 0.01%, often used in the context of interest rates Basis trading, a trading strategy consisting of the purchase of a security and the sale of a similar security Basis of futures, the value differential between a future and the spot price Basis (options), the value differential between a call option and a put option Basis swap, an interest rate swap Cost basis, in income tax law, the original cost of property adjusted for factors such as depreciation Tax basis, cost of an asset and technology Basis function Basis (linear algebra) Dual basis Orthonormal basis Schauder basis Basis (universal algebra) Basis of a matroid Generating set of an ideal: Gröbner basis Hilbert's basis theorem Generating set of a group Base (topology) Change of basis Greedoid Normal basis Polynomial basis Radial basis function Standard basis Transcendence basis of a field extension Basis database Chemistry Basis (crystal structure), the positions of the atoms inside the unit cell Basis set (chemistry) Dry basis, an expression of a calculation in which the presence of water is ignored Organizations Bangladesh Association of Software and Information Services Basis Educational Group Basis Schools, a group of schools in Arizona, Washington, D.C., and Texas Basis Technology Corp., a text analytics company People Dimitris Basis, Greek singer Liron Basis (born 1974), Israeli footballer See also Base (disambiguation) Basic (disambiguation) Basis of Union (disambiguation) Basis set (disambiguation)
Bromeliales is an order of flowering plants. Such an order has been recognized by a few systems of plant taxonomy, with a various placement. It appears that it always has had the same circumscription: consisting only of the family Bromeliaceae, the bromeliad or pineapple family. The order is not recognized in the APG II system, of 2003, which places the plants involved in the order Poales. Some examples are: The Cronquist system of 1981 placed this order in subclass Zingiberidae, of class Liliopsida [=monocotyledons]. The Thorne system (1992) placed the order in superorder Commelinanae in subclass Liliidae [=monocotyledons]. The Dahlgren system placed the order in superorder Bromeliiflorae (also known as Bromelianae) in subclass Liliidae [=monocotyledons] together with five other orders. The Engler system, in its update of 1964, placed the order in class Monocotyledoneae. References ITIS 42329 Historically recognized angiosperm orders
The Brassicales (or Cruciales) are an order of flowering plants, belonging to the eurosids II group of dicotyledons under the APG II system. One character common to many members of the order is the production of glucosinolate (mustard oil) compounds. Most systems of classification have included this order, although sometimes under the name Capparales (the name chosen depending on which is thought to have priority). The order typically contains the following families: Akaniaceae – two species of turnipwood trees, native to Asia and eastern Australia Bataceae – salt-tolerant shrubs from America and Australasia Brassicaceae – mustard and cabbage family; may include the Cleomaceae Capparaceae – caper family, sometimes included in Brassicaceae Caricaceae – papaya family Cleomaceae Gyrostemonaceae – several genera of small shrubs and trees endemic to temperate parts of Australia Koeberliniaceae – one species of thorn bush native to Mexico and the US Southwest Limnanthaceae – meadowfoam family Moringaceae – thirteen species of trees from Africa and India Pentadiplandraceae – African species whose berries have two highly sweet tasting proteins Resedaceae – mignonette family Salvadoraceae – three genera found from Africa to Java Setchellanthaceae Tiganophytaceae Tovariaceae Tropaeolaceae – nasturtium family Classification The following diagram shows the phylogeny of the Brassicales families along with their estimated ages, based on a 2018 study of plastid DNA: On 20 April 2020, a newly described monotypic species from Namibia, namely, Tiganophyton karasense is placed under this order as a monotypic member of new family Tiganophytaceae, which is closely related to Bataceae, Salvadoraceae and Koeberliniaceae. Historic classifications Under the Cronquist system, the Brassicales were called the Capparales, and included among the "Dilleniidae". The only families included were the Brassicaceae and Capparaceae (treated as separate families), the Tovariaceae, Resedaceae, and Moringaceae. Other taxa now included here were placed in various other orders. The families Capparaceae and Brassicaceae are closely related. One group, consisting of Cleome and related genera, was traditionally included in the Capparaceae but doing so results in a paraphyletic Capparaceae. Therefore, this group is generally now either included in the Brassicaceae or as its own family, Cleomaceae. Gallery of type genera Setchellanthaceae is sometimes known as the azulita family. References External links Angiosperm orders
The String Quartet No. 16 in F major, Op. 135, by Ludwig van Beethoven was written in October 1826 and was the last major work he completed. Only the final movement of the Quartet Op. 130, written as a replacement for the Große Fuge, was composed later. The work was premiered by the Schuppanzigh Quartet in March 1828, one year after Beethoven's death. The Op. 135 quartet is the shortest of Beethoven's late quartets. Under the introductory slow chords in the last movement, which is headed "Der schwer gefaßte Entschluß" (The Difficult Decision), Beethoven wrote in the manuscript "Muß es sein?" (Must it be?) to which he responds, with the faster main theme of the movement, "Es muß sein!" (It must be!). It is in four movements: Allegretto (F major) Vivace (F major) Lento assai, cantante e tranquillo (D major) "Der schwer gefaßte Entschluß". Grave, ma non troppo tratto ("Muss es sein?") – Allegro ("Es muss sein!") – Grave, ma non troppo tratto – Allegro (F minor – F major) The autograph manuscript of the work is preserved in the Beethoven House. The performance of the work takes around 22–25 minutes. The work features in Czech author Milan Kundera's The Unbearable Lightness of Being, where the character Tomas uses the phrases "Muß es sein?" and "Es muß sein!" to describe his approach to fate. Notes Further reading External links String Quartet in F major, Op. 135. Beethoven's autograph in the Beethoven House Project Gutenberg E-Book of the Quartet Performance by the Borromeo String Quartet from the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in MP3 format String quartet 16 1826 compositions Compositions in F major
Ludwig van Beethoven's Opus 1 is a set of three piano trios (written for piano, violin, and cello), first performed in 1795 in the house of Prince Lichnowsky, to whom they are dedicated. The trios were published in 1795. Despite the Op. 1 designation, these trios were not Beethoven's first published compositions; this distinction belongs rather to his Dressler Variations for keyboard (WoO 63). Clearly he recognized the Op. 1 compositions as the earliest ones he had produced that were substantial enough (and marketable enough) to fill out a first major publication to introduce his style of writing to the musical public. Op. 1 No. 1 - Piano Trio No. 1 in E-flat major Allegro (E-flat major), Adagio cantabile (A-flat major), Scherzo. Allegro assai (E-flat major, with trio in A-flat major), Finale. Presto (E-flat major), The first movement opens with an ascending arpeggiated figure (a so-called Mannheim Rocket, like that opening the first movement of the composer's own Piano Sonata no 1, Opus 2 no 1), Op. 1 No. 2 - Piano Trio No. 2 in G major Adagio, - Allegro vivace, (G major) Largo con espressione (E major), Scherzo. Allegro (G major, with a trio in B minor), Finale. Presto (G major), Op. 1 No. 3 - Piano Trio No. 3 in C minor Allegro con brio (C minor), Andante cantabile con Variazioni (E-flat major), Minuetto. Quasi allegro (C minor, with a trio in C major), Finale. Prestissimo (C minor, concluding in C major), Unlike the other piano trios in this opus, the third trio does not have a scherzo as its third movement but a minuet instead. This third piano trio was later reworked by Beethoven into the C minor string quintet, Op. 104. References External links Performance of Piano Trio No. 1 by the Claremont Trio from the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in MP3 format Performance of Piano Trio No. 3, I Allegro con brio Piano Trio 01 1793 compositions Compositions in E-flat major Compositions in G major Compositions in C minor Music with dedications
Op. 70 is a set of two Piano Trios by Ludwig van Beethoven, written for piano, violin, and cello. Both trios were composed during Beethoven's stay at Countess Marie von Erdödy's estate, and both are dedicated to her for her hospitality. They were published in 1809. The first, in D major, known as the Ghost, is one of his best known works in the genre (rivaled only by the Archduke Trio). The D major trio features themes found in the second movement of Beethoven's Symphony No. 2. The All-Music Guide states that "because of its strangely scored and undeniably eerie-sounding slow movement, it was dubbed the 'Ghost' Trio. The name has stuck with the work ever since. The ghostly music may have had its roots in sketches for a Macbeth opera that Beethoven was contemplating at the time." According to Lewis Lockwood, Beethoven's pupil Carl Czerny wrote in 1842 that the slow movement reminded him (Czerny) of the ghost scene at the opening of Shakespeare's Hamlet, and this was the origin of the nickname. James Keller also attributes the nickname to Czerny, adding, "You may discard as erroneous the oft-encountered claim that this movement of the Ghost Trio is a reworking of music Beethoven originally sketched as the Witches Chorus for his Macbeth. These pieces are representative of Beethoven's "Middle" stylistic period, which went from roughly 1803 to 1812, and which included many of his most famous works. Beethoven wrote the two piano trios while spending the summer of 1808 back once again in Heiligenstadt, Vienna, where he had completed his Symphony No. 5 the previous summer. He wrote the two trios immediately after finishing his Sinfonia pastorale, Symphony No. 6. This was a period of uncertainty in Beethoven's life, in particular because he had no dependable source of income at the time. Although these two trios are sometimes numbered as "No. 5" and "No. 6", the numbering of Beethoven's twelve piano trios is not standardized, and in other sources the two Op. 70 trios may be shown as having different numbers, if any. Piano Trio in D major, Op. 70 No. 1 "Ghost" Allegro vivace e con brio, D major, 3/4 Largo assai ed espressivo, D minor, 2/4 [This movement is what gave the "Ghost Trio" its name] Presto, D major, 4/4 Piano Trio in E-flat major, Op. 70 No. 2 Poco sostenuto – Allegro, ma non troppo, E-flat major, 4/4 - 6/8 Allegretto, C major/minor, 2/4 Allegretto ma non troppo, A-flat major, 3/4 Finale. Allegro, E-flat major, 2/4 The second movement is in double variation form. References External links Performances of Piano Trio Op. 70 No. 1 and Piano Trio Op. 70 No. 2 by the Claremont Trio from the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in MP3 format Piano Trio 70 1808 compositions Compositions in D major Compositions in E-flat major Music with dedications
The Piano Trio in B-flat major, Op. 97, by Ludwig van Beethoven is a piano trio completed in 1811. It is commonly referred to as the Archduke Trio, because it was dedicated to Archduke Rudolph of Austria, the youngest of twelve children of Leopold II, Holy Roman Emperor. Rudolf was an amateur pianist and a patron, friend, and composition student of Beethoven. Beethoven dedicated about a dozen compositions to him. The Archduke Trio was written late in Beethoven's so-called "middle period". He sketched out the draft for it in the summer of 1810 and completed the composition in March 1811. It follows the traditional four movement structure with sonata form in the first and rondo sonata form in the last movement. It also allows for a more prominent part for the piano than previous compositions. Historical Context The Archduke Trio came to fruition just months after a highly successful premiere of his Battle Symphony (Wellingtons Sieg, Op. 91). Though the relationship between Beethoven and Archduke Rudolf had its challenges, Beethoven was indebted to him for his unwavering financial support, on which account Beethoven continued to dedicate works to him. In this work, Beethoven increases the independence of the piano's role in relation to the violin and cello and in comparison with his earlier piano trios. There is much debate over the amount of time Beethoven dedicated to composing the Archduke Trio, though an earlier autograph from March 1811 could prove that it was composed in only three weeks' time. At this time, Beethoven was experiencing great success with his compositions and pitting publishers against each other. He may have been considering marriage according to personal correspondence via letters. Beethoven also wrote personally to Archduke Rudolf with the newly composed trio to have it copied within the archduke's palace out of fear that it would be stolen. This was a frequent transaction between the two and resulted in the archduke establishing a library of all of Beethoven's compositions with manuscript copies for conservation. First performances Two days after completion in 1811, Beethoven played the Archduke Trio in an informal setting at the Baron Neuworth's residency with no known performance after until 1814. The first public performance was given by Beethoven himself, Ignaz Schuppanzigh (violin), and Josef Linke (cello) at the Viennese hotel Zum römischen Kaiser on April 11, 1814. At the time, Beethoven's deafness compromised his ability as a performer, and after a repeat performance a few weeks later, Beethoven never appeared again in public as a pianist. The violinist and composer Louis Spohr witnessed a rehearsal of the work, and wrote, "on account of his deafness there was scarcely anything left of the virtuosity of the artist which had formerly been so greatly admired. In forte passages the poor deaf man pounded on the keys until the strings jangled, and in piano he played so softly that whole groups of notes were omitted, so that the music was unintelligible unless one could look into the pianoforte part. I was deeply saddened at so hard a fate." The pianist and composer Ignaz Moscheles attended the premiere, and wrote about the work, "in the case of how many compositions is the word 'new' misapplied! But never in Beethoven's, and least of all in this, which again is full of originality. His playing, aside from its intellectual element, satisfied me less, being wanting in clarity and precision; but I observed many traces of the grand style of playing which I had long recognized in his compositions." Structure The work is in four movements. A typical performance runs more than 40 minutes in length. Allegro moderato This first movement is in the home key of B-flat major and is in Sonata form. The first two measures present a motif consisting of five notes which are used throughout the trio in various altered forms. The main theme remains piano until the coda where it returns at a fortissimo indication. Scherzo (Allegro) Also in the home key of B-flat major, the second movement consists of a fast scherzo and trio rather than the traditional slow movement. Some editions show the repeats of scherzo and trio sections, but Beethoven published it originally as written out repeats. The triad used as motivic material in the first movement is presented as scales here in the second. Andante cantabile, ma però con moto The third movement is in the key of D major and follows variation form and is approached attacca to the finale movement. There has been some debate over the specific tempo intended by Beethoven as to the authenticity of the inclusion of "con moto" in the score. Allegro moderato This finale movement is as expected in the home key of B-flat major and employs a loose interpretation of the Rondo Sonata form structure: A B A' B A' (Coda) The similarities between all four movements rhythm can be seem culminated here where Beethoven increasingly shortens the rhythmic values before bar lines. During the lengthy coda, there is a stray in key centers as far as A major and E flat Major until returning to B-flat major at the end. Beethoven himself indicated during a rehearsal of the piece that it should not be played in a gentle manner, but with much energy and force. Reception Though there were complaints directed towards Beethoven after the public premiere regarding his abilities as a performer due to his increasing deafness, the trio itself enjoyed much success and was quickly considered as one of his masterpieces. His reputation and credibility as a composer did not diminish, but rather continued to soar. Music journals such as the Allgemeine Musikalische Zeitung viewed the trio as typical of the composer's output with nothing out of the ordinary. They considered the scherzo to be contrapuntal in nature, which speaks to what music textures were still acceptable for audiences at this time between the Classical and Romantic eras. Likewise, in 1823 the Allgemeine Musikalische Zeitung issued a call to musicians to perform the piece with much dedication and inspiration. References in popular culture The trio, referred to as The Archduke, plays a significant role in Elizabeth George's mystery A Traitor to Memory (2001) In Haruki Murakami's novel Kafka on the Shore (2002), the piece and its history are used to explain the relationship between two main characters, Nakata and Hoshino, and the latter's development as a person. In the Coen Brothers's film The Man Who Wasn't There (2001), the melancholic third movement of this work plays a central role, particularly in the climactic final scene in the electric chair. In Colm Toibin's Nora Webster the recording figures prominently in the title character's musical development as well as the foil (the album cover) for an internal examination of how her life might have been different Footnotes External links BBC Discovering Music Concert Podcast from Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum Information and digitized early editions at the Beethoven-Haus Digital Archives Piano Trio 97 1811 compositions Compositions in B-flat major Music with dedications
The Violin Sonata No. 5 in F major, Op. 24, is a four movement work for violin and piano by Ludwig van Beethoven. It was first published in 1801. The work is commonly known as the Spring Sonata (Frühlingssonate), although the name "Spring" was apparently given to it after Beethoven's death. The sonata was dedicated to Count Moritz von Fries, a patron to whom Beethoven also dedicated two other works of the same year—the String Quintet in C major, Op. 29 and the Violin Sonata No. 4—as well as his later Symphony No. 7 in A major. The autograph manuscript of the sonata is preserved in the Austrian National Library. Origin Beethoven initially intended to pair this work with his Violin Sonata No. 4, Opus 23, and the two sonatas complement each other in both key and character. However, the two were not published together and thus have different opus numbers. The reason for the separation is unknown. Structure The work is in four movements: The entire sonata takes approximately 22 minutes to perform. See also Violin Sonata in A major (Beethoven) References Notes Sources External links Violin Sonata Op. 24: Beethoven's autograph manuscript in the Austrian National Library Performance of Violin Sonata No. 5 by Corey Cerovsek (violin) and Paavali Jumppanen (piano) from the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum Violin Sonata 05 1801 compositions Compositions in F major Music with dedications Music dedicated to nobility or royalty
Barratry ( ) is a legal term that, at common law, described a criminal offense committed by people who are overly officious in instigating or encouraging prosecution of groundless litigation, or who bring repeated or persistent acts of litigation for the purposes of profit or harassment. Although it remains a crime in some jurisdictions, barratry has frequently been abolished as being anachronistic and obsolete. Barratry by country Australia In Australia, the term barratry is predominantly used in the first sense of a frivolous or harassing litigant. The concept has fallen into disuse in Australia. New South Wales The offence of being a common barrator was abolished in New South Wales by Section 4A of the Maintenance, Champerty and Barratry Abolition Act 1993. Victoria The offence of being a common barrator was abolished in Victoria by section 2 of the Abolition of Obsolete Offences Act 1969. Canada In Canada, barratry, alongside all common law offences except contempt of court, were abolished by the 1953 consolidation of the Criminal Code. United Kingdom England and Wales In England and Wales the common law offence of being a common barrator was abolished by section 13(1)(a) of the Criminal Law Act 1967. History Being a common barrator was an offence under the common law of England. It was classified as a misdemeanor. It consisted of "persistently stirring up quarrels in the Courts or out of them". It is uncertain whether, in the ordinary way, persons charged with commission of the offence were dealt with by indictment. In 1966, the Law Commission recommended for the offence to be abolished. It said that there had been no indictments for this offence for "many years" and that, as an indictable misdemeanor, it was "wholly obsolete". Its recommendation was implemented by the Criminal Law Act 1967. Scotland In Scots law, barratry referred to the crime committed by a judge who is induced by bribery to pronounce judgment. United States Several jurisdictions in the United States have declared barratry (in the sense of a frivolous or harassing litigant) to be a crime as part of their tort reform efforts. For example, in the U.S. states of California, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and Washington, barratry is a misdemeanor. In Texas, barratry is a misdemeanor on the first conviction, but a felony on subsequent convictions. California Penal Code Section 158: "Common barratry is the practice of exciting groundless judicial proceedings, and is punishable by imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding six months and by fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000)." California Penal Code Section 159: "No person can be convicted of common barratry except upon proof that he has excited suits or proceedings at law in at least three instances, and with a corrupt or malicious intent to vex and annoy." Revised Code of Washington 9.12.010: "Every person who brings on his or her own behalf, or instigates, incites, or encourages another to bring, any false suit at law or in equity in any court of this state, with intent thereby to distress or harass a defendant in the suit, or who serves or sends any paper or document purporting to be or resembling a judicial process, that is not in fact a judicial process, is guilty of a misdemeanor; and in case the person offending is an attorney, he or she may, in addition thereto be disbarred from practicing law within this state." Virginia laws on barratry, champerty, and maintenance were overturned by the Supreme Court of the United States in NAACP v. Button 371 U.S. 415 (1963). Vermont Statutes Title 13, § 701: "A person who is a common barrator shall be fined not more than $50.00 and become bound with sufficient surety for his or her good behavior for not less than one year." See also Abuse of process Ambulance chasing Bleak House Champerty Collegatary Forum shopping Frivolous or vexatious In terrorem Legal threat Legal advertising Malicious prosecution Vexatious litigation Isaac Wunder order References External links Abuse of the legal system Civil law (common law) Crimes Criminal law Common law legal terminology Common law offences in England and Wales
The Big/Great Dipper is the American English term for the seven brightest stars of Ursa Major (The Plough in British English). Big Dipper also may refer to: Entertainment Big Dipper (Battersea Park), a wooden roller coaster operating in Battersea Park, London, England, from 1951 until 1972 Big Dipper (Blackpool), a wooden roller coaster at Blackpool Pleasure Beach, England Big Dipper (Geauga Lake), a wooden roller coaster formerly at the now defunct Geauga Lake Park in Ohio, US Big Dipper (Luna Park Sydney), a wooden roller coaster operating at Luna Park Sydney, Australia from 1935 until 1981 Big Dipper (Michigan's Adventure), a steel roller coaster in Michigan, US Cyclone (Dreamworld), a steel roller coaster which operated as Big Dipper at Luna Park Sydney, Australia from 1995 to 2001 Sport Wilt Chamberlain (1936–1999), American basketball player Robert DiPierdomenico (born 1958), Australian rules footballer Chris Duncan (born 1981), American baseball player Music Big Dipper (band), a 1980s-1990s Boston alternative-rock band Big Dipper, professional name of American rapper Dan Stermer. Big Dipper (album), a 2003 album by Drop Trio The Great Dipper (album), a 2015 album by Roy Kim Big Dipper (Elton John song), a 1978 song by Elton John "Big Dipper", a song by Jethro Tull from their 1976 album Too Old to Rock 'n' Roll: Too Young to Die! "Big Dipper", a song by Built to Spill from their 1994 album There's Nothing Wrong with Love "Big Dipper", a song by Cracker from their 1996 album The Golden Age (Cracker album) "Big Dipper", a song by Death Grips from their 2014 album The Powers That B Other uses Big Dipper Ice Arena, in Fairbanks, Alaska See also Beidou (disambiguation), Chinese equivalent of the asterism Little Dipper (disambiguation) Starry Plough (disambiguation)
Bassas da India (; ) is an uninhabited, roughly circular French atoll that is part of the French Southern and Antarctic Lands. Located in the southern Mozambique Channel, about halfway between Mozambique and Madagascar (about further east) and around northwest of Europa Island, the rim of the atoll averages around in width and encloses a shallow lagoon of depth no greater than . Overall, the atoll is about in diameter, rising steeply from the seabed below to encircle an area (including lagoon) of . Its exclusive economic zone, in size, is contiguous with that of Europa Island. The atoll consists of ten barren rocky islets, with no vegetation, totaling in area. Those on the north and east sides are high, while those on the west and south sides are high. The reef, whose coastline measures , is entirely covered by the sea from three hours before high tide to three hours afterward. The region is also subject to cyclones, making the atoll a long-time maritime hazard and the site of numerous shipwrecks. Jaguar Seamount and Hall Tablemount lie, respectively, about further southwest. History The Bassas da India was first recorded by Portuguese explorers in the early sixteenth century as the "Baixo da Judia" ("Jewess Shoals"). The Judia ("Jewess", for the ancestry of its owner Fernão de Loronha) was the Portuguese ship that discovered the feature by running aground on it in 1506. The name became "Bassas da India" due to transcription errors by cartographers. The Santiago broke up on the shoal in 1585. It was rediscovered by the Europa in 1774, whence the name "Europa Rocks". The Malay was lost 27 July 1842 on the Europa Rocks. In 1897, the shoal became a French possession, later being placed under the administration of a commissioner residing in Réunion in 1968. Madagascar became independent in 1960 and has claimed sovereignty over the shoal since 1972. Wildlife The presence of Galapagos sharks was reported in 2003, which is a first in the Mozambique Channel. Tourism Mooring at Bassas da India requires a permit from the French Government. Fishing without such a permit may result in the boat being expelled or even confiscated. Several illegal tourism charters departing from Mozambique or South Africa have been seized since 2013 by the French Navy. Gallery References Further reading External links Sailing Directions: East Africa and the South Indian Ocean French Southern and Antarctic Lands. The World Factbook. Central Intelligence Agency.. Indian Ocean atolls of France Atolls of Madagascar Uninhabited islands of France Islands of the French Southern and Antarctic Lands Territorial disputes of France Territorial disputes of Madagascar France–Madagascar relations
The Government of Barbados (GoB), is a unitary parliamentary republic, where the President of Barbados is the head of state and the Prime Minister of Barbados is the head of government. Structure The country has a bicameral legislature and a political party system, based on universal adult suffrage and fair elections. The Senate has 21 members, appointed by the President, 12 on the advice of the Prime Minister, two on the advice of the Leader of the Opposition, and seven at the President's sole discretion. The House of Assembly has 30 members, all elected. Both houses debate all legislation. However, the House of Assembly may override Senate's rejection of money bills and other bills except bills amending the Constitution. Officers of each house (President and Deputy President of the Senate; Speaker, Deputy Speaker, and Chairman of Committees of the Assembly) are elected from the members of the respective houses. In keeping with the Westminster system of governance, Barbados has evolved into an independent parliamentary democracy, meaning that all political power rests with the Parliament under a non-political President as head of state. Executive authority is vested in the President, who normally acts only on the advice of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, who are collectively responsible to Parliament. Barbadian law is rooted in English common law, and the Constitution of Barbados implemented in 1966, is the supreme law of the land. Fundamental rights and freedoms of the individual are set out in the Constitution and are protected by a strict legal code. The Cabinet is headed by the Prime Minister, who must be an elected member of Parliament, and other ministers are appointed from either chamber by the President, as advised by the Prime Minister. The President appoints as Leader of the Opposition the member of House of Assembly who commands the support of the largest number of members of that House in opposition to the ruling party's government. The maximum duration of a Parliament is five years from the first sitting. There is a simultaneous dissolution of both Houses of Parliament by the President, acting on the advice of the Prime Minister. There is an established non-political civil service. Also, there are separate constitutional commissions for the Judicial and Legal Service, the Public Service, and the Police Service. History The government has been chosen by elections since 1961 elections, when Barbados achieved full self-governance. Before then, the government was a Crown colony consisting of either colonial administration solely (such as the Executive Council), or a mixture of colonial rule and a partially elected assembly, such as the Legislative Council. Between 1966 and 2021, the head of state of Barbados was the Monarchy of Barbados represented by the Governor-General of Barbados as its representative. After decades of republicanism, the monarchy was abolished and replaced with a new head of state office, the President of Barbados, on 30 November 2021. Since independence the Democratic Labour Party (DLP) held office 1966 to 1976, from 1986 to 1994, and from January 2008 to 2018. The Barbados Labour Party (BLP) governed from 1976 to 1986, from September 1994–2008 and has formed the government from 2018–Present. Executive branch | President | Sandra Mason | Independent | 30 November 2021 |- |Prime Minister | Mia Mottley |Barbados Labour Party |25 May 2018 |} The Executive Branch of government conducts the ordinary business of government. These functions are called out by the Prime Minister and cabinet ministers. The prime minister chooses the ministers of government they wish to have in the cabinet but they are actually appointed by the President. Heads of State President Head of Government Prime Minister Attorney General's Ministers Source: St.Lucia Times Source: St.Lucia Times Source: BGIS Legislative Branch Under Barbados' version of the Westminster system of government, the executive and legislative branches are partly intertwined. The only official Cabinet office (other than Prime Minister) expressly mentioned in the Constitution of Barbados is Office of the Attorney-General. President Chief Secretaries (Abolished) Auditors-General Senators Presidents of the Senate Members of the House ( a/k/a Members of Parliament) Speakers of the House of Assembly Clerks of Parliament Law The Constitution of Barbados is the supreme law of the nation. The Attorney General heads the independent judiciary. Historically, Barbadian law was based entirely on English common law with a few local adaptations. At the time of independence, the Parliament of the United Kingdom lost its ability to legislate for Barbados, but the existing English and British common law and statutes in force at that time, together with other measures already adopted by the Barbadian Parliament, became the basis of the new country's legal system. Legislation may be shaped or influenced by such organisations as the United Nations, the Organization of American States, or other international bodies to which Barbados has obligatory commitments by treaty. Additionally, through international co-operation, other institutions may supply the Barbados Parliament with key sample legislation to be adapted to meet local circumstances before enacting it as local law. New acts are passed by the Barbadian Parliament and require approval by the President to become law. The President, has the power to "withhold assent" from laws by vetoing the proposed law without parliamentary override. Judicial branch The judiciary is the legal system through which punishments are handed out to individuals who break the law. The functions of the judiciary are to enforce laws; to interpret laws; to conduct court hearings; to hear court appeals. The local court system of Barbados is made up of: Magistrates' Courts: Covering Criminal, Civil, Domestic, Domestic Violence, and Juvenile matters. But can also take up matters dealing with Coroner's Inquests, Liquor Licences, and civil marriages. Further, the Magistrates' Courts deal with Contract and Tort law where claims do not exceed $10,000.00. The Supreme Court: is made up of High Court and Court of Appeals. High Court: Consisting of Civil, Criminal, and Family law divisions. Court of Appeal: Handles appeals from the High Court and Magistrates' Court. It hears appeals in both the civil, and criminal law jurisdictions. It may consist of a single Justice of Appeal sitting in Chambers; or may sit as a Full Court of three Justices of Appeals. The Caribbean Court of Justice (CCJ), (based in Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago), is the court of last resort (final jurisdiction) over Barbadian law. It replaced the London-based Judicial Committee of the Privy Council (JCPC). The CCJ may resolve other disputed matters dealing with the Caribbean Single Market and Economy (CSME). Chief Justices Justices of Appeals Magistrates Perception Transparency International ranked Barbados as 29th place (of 180) in the world on its Corruption Perceptions Index in 2021, being the least corrupt country in the Caribbean. See also Politics of Barbados Monarchy of Barbados Parliament of Barbados Prime Minister of Barbados Cabinet of Barbados List of government budgets by country List of countries by tax revenue as percentage of GDP References Further reading Gallery External links Barbadian Government Website The Barbados Governmental System, Photius Coutsoukis Barbados Government statement on the proper titles for members of Government Social Security provided by the Government of Barbados Laws of Barbados, The World Law Guide Laws of Barbados, The World Intellectual Property Organization Barbados Barbados politics-related lists
The Government of the Republic of Belarus (), which consists of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Belarus (), is the executive branch of state power in Belarus, and is appointed by the President of Belarus. The head of the Government is the President of Belarus, who manages the main agenda of the government and direct the ministers. The National Assembly of Belarus is the continuation of the Supreme Soviet of the BSSR and acts as the functioning parliament for Belarus. Council of Ministers Below are the 30 members of the Council of Ministers as of 19 August 2020, as well as the head of the presidential administration and the chairmen of the State Committees, who are not technically ministers but are included in the Council of Ministers. Offices which are not technically counted as ministerial posts are italicized. The prime minister, the first deputy prime minister(s), the deputy prime minister(s), the ministers of economy, finance, and foreign affairs, the head of the presidential administration, and the chairman of the State Control Committee together form the Presidium of the Council of Ministers. These officials are highlighted in yellow. The incumbent government resigned en masse on 17 August 2020. A new government was formed on 19 August 2020, consisting of mostly the same people. Composition As of 2023: See also Supreme Soviet of Belarus, the preceding supreme state power in Belarus National Assembly of Belarus, the current supreme state power in Belarus References Belarus
Telecommunications in Belarus involves the availability and use of electronic devices and services, such as the telephone, television, radio or computer, for the purpose of communication. Telephone system Telephone lines in use: 3,9741 million (2011). Mobile/cellular: 11,559,473 subscribers (Q1 2019). The phone calling code for Belarus is +375. The Ministry of Telecommunications controls all telecommunications originating within the country through its carrier unitary enterprise, Beltelecom. Minsk has a digital metropolitan network; waiting lists for telephones are long; fixed line penetration is improving although rural areas continue to be underserved; intercity – Belarus has developed a fibre-optic backbone system presently serving at least 13 major cities (1998). Belarus's fibre optics form synchronous digital hierarchy rings through other countries' systems. International connection Belarus is a member of the Trans-European Line (TEL), Trans-Asia-Europe Fibre-Optic Line (TAE) and has access to the Trans-Siberia Line (TSL); three fibre-optic segments provide connectivity to Latvia, Poland, Russia, and Ukraine; worldwide service is available to Belarus through this infrastructure; Intelsat, Eutelsat, and Intersputnik earth stations. In 2006 it was announced that Belarus and Russia completed the second broadband link between the two countries, the Yartsevo-Vitebsk cable. The capacity of this high speed terrestrial link which based on DWDM and STM technology is 400Gbit/s with the ability to upgrade in the future. Cellular communications Belarus has 3 GSM/UMTS operators – A1, MTS, life:). For 4G data operators use the infrastructure managed by state operator beCloud, VoLTE service currently is offered only with A1. Radio and television Television broadcast stations: 100 of which 59 are privately owned. Belarus has switched from an analog to digital broadcast television. The process finished in May 2015. Belarus broadcasts according to the DVB-T2 standard with MPEG-4 compression. Radio broadcast stations: 173 with 24 privately owned, including 30 FM stations. Radios: 3.02 million (1997). Internet Country code: .by The state telecom monopoly, Beltelecom, holds the exclusive interconnection with Internet providers outside of Belarus. Beltelecom owns all the backbone channels that linked to the Lattelecom, TEO LT, Tata Communications (former Teleglobe), Synterra, Rostelecom, Transtelekom and MTS ISP's. Beltelecom is the only operator licensed to provide commercial VoIP services in Belarus. Until 2005–2006 broadband access (mostly using ADSL) was available only in a few major cities in Belarus. In Minsk there were a dozen privately owned ISP's and in some larger cities Beltelecom's broadband was available. Outside these cities the only options for Internet access were dial-up from Beltelecom or GPRS/cdma2000 from mobile operators. In 2006 Beltelecom introduced a new trademark, Byfly, for its ADSL access. As of 2008 Byfly was available in all administrative centres of Belarus. Other ISPs are expanding their broadband networks beyond Minsk as well. Internet use: According to a 2006 survey of 1,500 adults by Satio, a third of Belarusians use the Internet—38% of the urban population and 16% of the rural population. A 2006 study by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development indicates 56.5% of Belarus' population were internet-users. The International Telecommunication Union showed Internet penetration (Internet users per 100 population) in 2009 at 27% for Belarus, 42% for Serbia, 37% for Romania, 29% for Russia, and 17% for Ukraine. According to Internet World Stats, Internet penetration in June 2010 was 47.5%. For comparison, Internet penetration in the Ukraine was 33.7%, in Romania 35.5%, Russia 42.8%, and Serbia 55.9%. The most active Internet users in Belarus belong to the 17–22 age group (38 percent), followed by users in the 23–29 age group. Internet access in Belarus is predominantly urban, with 60 percent of users living in the capital Minsk. The profile of the average Internet user is male, university educated, living in the capital, and working in a state enterprise. The Ministry for Statistics and Analysis estimates that one in four families in Belarus owns a computer at home. The popularity of Internet cafés has fallen in recent years, as most users prefer to access the Internet from home or work. Russian is the most widely used language by Belarusians on the Internet, followed by Belarusian, English, and Polish. In mid-2009 there were more than 22,300 Belarusian Web sites, of which roughly 13,500 domain names were registered with the top-level domain name ".by". In June 2011 E-Belarus.org listed: 2 ISPs in the Brest region, 4 in the Gomel region, 1 in the Grodno region, 26 in the Minsk region, 1 in the Mogilev region, and 1 in the Vitebsk region 4 ADSL providers 3 technology parks 2 educational networks more than 30 Internet cafes and Wi-Fi Hotspots Censorship and media freedom Many western human rights groups state that civil rights and free expression are severely limited in Belarus, though there are some individuals and groups that refuse to be controlled and some journalists have disappeared. Because the Belarus government limits freedom of expression, several opposition media outlets are broadcast from nearby countries to help provide Belarusians an alternative points of view. This includes the Polish state-owned Belsat TV station and European Radio for Belarus (Eŭrapéjskaje Rádyjo dla Biełarúsi) Reporters Without Borders ranked Belarus 157th out of 178 countries in its 2014 Press Freedom Index. By comparison, the same index ranked neighbor Ukraine, 126th and Russia, 148th. In the 2011 Freedom House Freedom of the Press report, Belarus scored 92 on a scale from 10 (most free) to 99 (least free), because the government allegedly systematically curtails press freedom. This score placed Belarus 9th from the bottom of the 196 countries included in the report and earned the country a "Not Free" status. References External links The Ministry of Information of the Republic of Belarus (Belarusian) The Ministry of Communications and Informatization of the Republic of Belarus (Belarusian) Media in Belarus, e-Belarus.org Mass media in Belarus on the official website of the Republic of Belarus Major telecommunications operators in Belarus (in Belarusian): Beltelecom MTS (GSM) A1 (GSM) Life (GSM) Internet in Belarus ru:Интернет в Белоруссии
This article is about transport in Belarus. Railways Rail transport in Belarus is operated by Belarusskaya Chyhunka total: country comparison to the world: 32 broad gauge: of gauge ( electrified) (2006) City with underground railway system: Minsk, see Minsk Metro For tramway systems: see List of town tramway systems in Belarus Highways The owners of highways may be the Republic of Belarus, its political subdivisions, legal and natural persons, who own roads, as well as legal entities, which roads are fixed on the basis of economic or operational management. Republican state administration in the field of roads and road activity is the Department Belavtodor under the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the Republic of Belarus. In total, in Belarus there are more than of roads and of departmental thousand (agriculture, industry, forestry, etc.), including in cities and towns. The density of paved roads has been relatively low – 337 km per 1,000 km2 territory – for comparison, in European countries with well-developed road network, the figure is an average of . total: paved: (2003) Waterways (use limited by location on perimeter of country and by shallowness) (2003) country comparison to the world: 37 Belarus' inland waterways are managed by Dneprobugvodput, Belvodput, and the Dnieper-Berezinsky Enterprise. Pipelines gas ; oil ; refined products (2008) Ports and harbors Mazyr - on the river Pripyat Airports 65 (2008): country comparison to the world: 76 Minsk International Airport Minsk-1 Gomel Airport Airports - with paved runways total: 35 over : 2 : 22 : 4 : 1 under : 6 (2008) Airports - with unpaved runways total: 30 : 1 : 1 : 2 under : 26 (2008) Heliports 1 (2007)Heliports is where helicopter land. National air-carrier Belavia See also Transport in the Soviet Union Vehicle registration plates of Belarus References External links Automobiles, Trains And Buses - Getting Around Belarus
Communications in Belgium are extensive and advanced. Belgium possesses the infrastructure for both mobile and land-based telecom, as well as having significant television, radio and internet infrastructure. The country code for Belgium is BE. Services Mail Mail regulation is a national competency. Postal service in Belgium is in many cases performed by Belgian Post Group, a semi-private public company. Competitors include DHL and UPS. Postal codes in Belgium consist of four digits which indicate regional areas, e.g. "9000" is the postal code for Ghent. Telephone The telephone system itself is highly developed and technologically advanced, with full automation in facilities that handle domestic and international telecom. Domestically speaking, the county has a nationwide cellular telephone system and an extensive network of telephone cables. Telephone regulation is a national competency. The country code for Belgium is 32 and the international call prefix is 00. A telephone number in Belgium is a sequence of nine or ten numbers dialled on a telephone to make a call on the telephone network in Belgium. Belgium is under a closed telephone numbering plan, but retains the trunk code, "0", for all national dialling. Fixed telephones There were 4.668 million land telephone lines in use in Belgium in 2007, a slight decrease on the 4.769 million in use in 1997. The majority state-owned public telephone company of Belgium is Proximus. Some other or private operators exist, as Scarlet (Proximus) and Base (Telenet). Mobile telephones Mobile telephone ownership has increased by nearly one thousand percent in the period 1997–2007, from 974,494 to 10.23 million. There are three licensed mobile network operators (MNO) in Belgium, Proximus (Belgacom), Orange Belgium (Orange S.A.) and Telenet/Base and numerous mobile virtual network operators (MVNO). A fourth license will be auctioned off by the government in January 2010. Internet There were 61 (2003) internet service providers in Belgium, serving 8.113 million internet users in 2009. The country code for Belgian websites is .be. In September 2009 in Flanders there were 3,048,260 broadband internet customers (DSL and cable), of which 2,520,481 were residential users and 527,779 business users. Only 65,175 dial-up internet access accounts remained in the residential market and 9,580 in the business market. Internet providers xDSL Internet Providers Belgium has numerous copper cable internet providers: Altercom *End service 2011 Base Proximus Destiny Digiweb EDPnet Evonet Full Telecom Interxion iPFix LCL Mobistar (Orange S.A.) *End service : 2013 Numericable (France Numericable) Perceval Portima Proximedia Group Scarlet (Belgacom) Verizon Business (Verizon Communications) Ergatel Only Belgacom and Numericable currently offers fixed telephony and digital television in a triple play formula. All other companies offer also fixed telephony in a duo play formula. Cable Internet Providers Belgium has three major fiberglass cable internet providers: Numéricable for the Brussels region (Ypso Holding) Telenet for the Flanders and Brussels regions (Liberty Global) VOO for the Walloon and Brussels regions (TECTEO) Orange Belgium use Telenet and VOO network combined These companies all offer fixed telephony and digital television in a triple play formula. Interoute Managed Services Interxion LCL Nucleus Verizon Business (Verizon Communications) These companies all offer specialised services. Terrestrial Internet Providers Clearwire in Brussels, Ghent, Leuven, Aalst, Halle and Vilvoorde (Sprint Nextel) Perceval Satellite Internet Providers Verizon Business (Verizon Communications) ISP for public services The Brussels Regional Informatics Center (BRIC, Centre d'Informatique pour la Région Bruxelloise in French) offers Internet access to public administrations in the Brussels-Capital Region, relying directly on the national Belnet network and the IRISnet network. Not categorized Other ISP are Chat.be, Connexeon, HostIT, Microsoft Belgium, Netlog, Ulysse, Ven Brussels, Rack66 (EUSIP bvba), WSD Hosting. Other The microwave relay network is, however, more limited. For international communications, Belgium has 5 submarine cables and a number of satellite earth stations, two of which are Intelsat, and one Eutelsat. References External links BIPT - Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications ISPA - Internet Service Providers Association of Belgium DNS - Domain Name System Belgium MAVISE - Belgian TV market Agoria - Federation of Belgian IT Employers Beltug - Federation of Belgian ICT Professionals UPP - Union of Belgian Periodical Press Publishers Febelma - Belgian Federation of Magazines VRM - Flemish Media Regulator (Dutch community) CSA - High Council for the Audiovisual Media (French community) MDGB - Germanic Media Council of Belgium (Germanic community)
The economy of Benin remains underdeveloped and dependent on subsistence agriculture and cotton. Cotton accounts for 40% of Benin's GDP and roughly 80% of official export receipts. There is also production of textiles, palm products, and cocoa beans. Maize (corn), beans, rice, peanuts, cashews, pineapples, cassava, yams, and other various tubers are grown for local subsistence. Benin began producing a modest quantity of offshore oil in October 1982. Production ceased in recent years but exploration of new sites is ongoing. A modest fishing fleet provides fish and shrimp for local subsistence and export to Europe. Formerly government-owned commercial activities are now privatized. A French brewer acquired the former state-run brewery. Smaller businesses are privately owned by Beninese citizens, but some firms are foreign owned, primarily French and Lebanese. The private commercial and agricultural sectors remain the principal contributors to growth. Economic development Since the transition to a democratic government in 1990, Benin has undergone an economic recovery. A large injection of external investment from both private and public sources has alleviated the economic difficulties of the early 1990s caused by global recession and persistently low commodity prices (although the latter continues to affect the economy). The manufacturing sector is confined to some light industry, which is mainly involved in processing primary products and the cow production of consumer goods. A planned joint hydroelectric project with neighboring Togo is intended to reduce Benin's dependence on imported energy mostly from Ghana, which currently accounts for a significant proportion of the country's imports. The service sector has grown quickly, stimulated by economic liberalization and fiscal reform, and the use of modern technology such as automobiles and computers has grown considerably as a result. Membership of the CFA Franc Zone offers reasonable currency stability as well as access to French economic support. Benin sells its products mainly to France and, in smaller quantities, to the Netherlands, Korea, Japan, and India. France is Benin's leading source for imports. Benin is also a member of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). Despite its rapid growth, the economy of Benin still remains underdeveloped and dependent on subsistence agriculture, cotton production, and regional trade. Growth in real output averaged a sound 5% since 1996, but a rapid population rise offset much of this growth on a per capita basis. Inflation has subsided over the past several years. Commercial and transport activities, which make up a large part of GDP, are vulnerable to developments in Nigeria, particularly fuel shortages. Although trade unions in Benin represent up to 75% of the formal workforce, the large informal economy has been noted by the International Trade Union Confederation (ITCU) to contain ongoing problems, including a lack of women's wage equality, the use of child labour, and the continuing issue of forced labour. In December 2014, the Bureau of International Labor Affairs issued a List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor in which the Republic of Benin was mentioned among 74 other countries where significant instances of child labor were observed. Two major products involved such working conditions in Benin: cotton and crushed granite. Agriculture Benin produced in 2018: 3.8 million tons of cassava (17th largest producer in the world); 2.7 million tons of yam (4th largest producer in the world, losing only to Nigeria, Ghana and Ivory Coast); 1.5 million tons of maize; 758 thousand tons of cotton (12th largest producer in the world); 598 thousand tons of palm oil; 459 thousand tons of rice; 372 thousand tons of pineapple; 319 thousand tons of sorghum; 253 thousand tons of tomato; 225 thousand tons of peanut; 221 thousand tons of soy; 215 thousand tons of cashew nuts (5th largest producer in the world, losing only Vietnam, India, Ivory Coast and Philippines); In addition to smaller productions of other agricultural products. Financial Sector Benin's financial sector is dominated by banks, and in general remains shallow. However, a series of reforms were undertaken in the 1990s, which resulted in the consolidation of the banking sector and in the privatization of all state banks. A legal framework regarding licensing, bank activities, organizational and capital requirements, inspections and sanctions (all applicable to all countries of the Union) is in place and underwent significant reforms in 1999. There is no customer deposit insurance system. Benin has a lively and diversified microfinance sector. Data from 2003 by the Central Bank stated a penetration rate of microfinance services of almost 60 percent. In 2006 the Ministry of Microfinance and Employment of Youth and Women counted 762 organizations with 1308 branches, including Cooperatives, NGOs, Savings/Credit Associations and government projects. Programmes for strengthening the sector are carried out on national and regional levels, such as the PRAFIDE (Programme Régional d’Appui à la finance Décentralisée). The microfinance sector is also subject to supervision through the Central Bank as well as the responsible Ministry for Microfinance and Employment of Youth and Women. Benin is member of the Bourse Regionale des Valeures Mobilières (BRVM) located in Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire. Stocks were issued by a number of companies in the region. Listed bonds were partly issued by companies and partly by governments of the West African Monetary and Economic Union (UEMOA). The payment and settlement system and clearing mechanisms were reformed in 2004 through the BCEAO and offer RTGS and SWIFT access to banks, financial institutions, the stock exchange as well as the Central bank and special banks. Banque Internationale du Bénin (BI.BE) Bank of Africa Benin Continental Bank Benin Diamond Bank Benin (DBB) Ecobank Financial Bank Finadev Caisse Nationale d'Epargne Credit du Bénin Equibail United Bank of Africa Africa Bank for the Industry and the trade Sahelo-Saharian Bank of the Industry and Trade Development Data The following table shows the main economic indicators in 1980–2017. See also Agriculture in Benin Fishing in Benin United Nations Economic Commission for Africa Foreign trade of Benin References External links Benin Banking Information West African Agricultural Market Observer/Observatoire du Marché Agricole (RESIMAO), a project of the West-African Market Information Network (WAMIS-NET), provides live market and commodity prices from fifty seven regional and local public agricultural markets across Benin, Burkina Faso, Côte d'Ivoire, Guinea, Niger, Mali, Senegal, Togo, and Nigeria. Sixty commodities are tracked weekly. The project is run by the Benin Ministry of Agriculture, and a number of European, African, and United Nations agencies. Benin latest trade data on ITC Trade Map Benin Benin
The economy of Bhutan is based on agriculture and forestry, which provide the main livelihood for more than 60% of the population. Agriculture consists largely of subsistence farming and animal husbandry. Rugged mountains dominate the terrain and make the building of roads and other infrastructure difficult. Bhutan is among the richest by gross domestic product (nominal) per capita in South Asia, at $3,491 as of 2022, but it still places 153rd, and among the poorest in the world. The total gross domestic product is only $2,653 million, and 178th according to IMF. Bhutan's economy is closely aligned with India's through strong trade and monetary links and dependence on India's financial assistance. Most production in the industrial sector is of the cottage industry type. Most development projects, such as road construction, rely on Indian migrant labour. Model education, social, and environment programs are underway with support from multilateral development organisations. Each economic program takes into account the government's desire to protect the country's environment and cultural traditions. For example, the government, in its cautious expansion of the tourist sector, encourages visits by upscale, environmentally conscientious tourists. Detailed controls and uncertain policies in areas such as industrial licensing, trade, labour, and finance continue to hamper foreign investment. Hydropower exports to India have boosted Bhutan's overall growth, even though GDP fell in 2008 as a result of a slowdown in India, its predominant export market. Since 1961, the government of Bhutan has guided the economy through five-year plans in order to promote economic development. Macro-economic trend This is a chart of trend of gross domestic product of Bhutan at market prices by the International Monetary Fund: Bhutan's hydropower potential and its attraction for tourists are key resources. The Bhutanese Government has made some progress in expanding the nation's productive base and improving social welfare. In 2010, Bhutan became the first country in the world to ban smoking and the selling of tobacco. In order to stamp out cross-border smuggling during the pandemic, a new Tobacco Control Rules and Regulations (TCRR) 2021 allowed the import, sales and consumption of tobacco products. GNH versus GDP In the 1970s the King placed Gross National Happiness over Gross Domestic Product. See also Agriculture in Bhutan Banking in Bhutan Mining in Bhutan Fishing in Bhutan Forestry in Bhutan Bhutanese ngultrum, currency References Notes Public domain Citations Further reading External links Global Economic Prospects: Growth Prospects for South Asia The World Bank, 13 December 2006
The Lhop or Doya people are a little-known tribe of southwest Bhutan. The Bhutanese believe them to be the aboriginal inhabitants of the country. The Lhop are found in the low valleys of Dorokha Gewog and near Phuntsholing in the Duars. The dress of the Lhop resembles the Lepcha, but they bear little similarity with the Bhutia in the North and the Toto in the west. The Doya trace their descent matrilineally, marry their cross cousins, and embalm the deceased who are then placed in a foetal position in a circular sarcophagus above the ground. They follow a blend of Tibetan Buddhism mixed with animism. See also Ethnic groups in Bhutan Sharchop References External links RAOnline Bhutan: The Lhop Ethnic groups in Bhutan
Bosnia and Herzegovina is located in Southeastern Europe. Situated in the western Balkans, it has a border with Croatia to the north and southwest, a border with Serbia to the east, and a border with Montenegro to the southeast. It borders the Adriatic Sea along its coastline. The most striking features of the local terrain are valleys and mountains which measure up to in height. The country is mostly mountainous, encompassing the central Dinaric Alps. The northeastern parts reach into the Pannonian basin, while in the south it borders the Adriatic Sea. The country's natural resources include coal, iron ore, bauxite, manganese, nickel, clay, gypsum, salt, sand, timber and hydropower. Regions The country's name comes from the two regions Bosnia and Herzegovina, which have a very vaguely defined border between them. Bosnia occupies the northern areas which are roughly four fifths of the entire country, while Herzegovina occupies the rest in the southern part of the country. The major cities are the capital Sarajevo, Banja Luka and Bihać in the northwest region known as Bosanska Krajina, Tuzla in the northeast, Zenica in the central part of Bosnia and Mostar is the capital of Herzegovina. The south part of Bosnia has Mediterranean climate and a great deal of agriculture. Central Bosnia is the most mountainous part of Bosnia featuring prominent mountains Vlašić, Čvrsnica, and Prenj. Eastern Bosnia also features mountains like Trebević, Jahorina, Igman, Bjelašnica and Treskavica. It was here that the 1984 Winter Olympics were held. Eastern Bosnia is heavily forested along the river Drina, and overall close to 50% of Bosnia and Herzegovina is forested. Most forest areas are in Central, Eastern and Western parts of Bosnia. Northern Bosnia contains very fertile agricultural land along the river Sava and the corresponding area is heavily farmed. This farmland is a part of the Parapannonian Plain stretching into neighbouring Croatia and Serbia. The river Sava and corresponding Posavina river basin hold the cities of Brčko, Bosanski Šamac, Bosanski Brod and Bosanska Gradiška. The northwest part of Bosnia is called Bosanska Krajina and holds the cities of Banja Luka, Prijedor, Sanski Most, Jajce, Cazin, Velika Kladuša and Bihać. Kozara National Park and Mrakovica World War II monument is located in this region. The country has only of coastline, around the town of Neum in the Herzegovina-Neretva Canton, although surrounded by Croatian peninsulas it is possible to get to the middle of the Adriatic from Neum. By United Nations law, Bosnia has a right of passage to the outer sea. Neum has many hotels and is an important tourism destination. Rivers There are seven major rivers of Bosnia and Herzegovina: The Una in the northwest part of Bosnia flows along the northern and western border of Bosnia and Croatia and through the Bosnian city of Bihać. It is popular for rafting and adventure sports. The Sana flows through the city of Sanski Most and Prijedor and is a tributary of the river Una in the north. The Vrbas flows through the cities of Gornji Vakuf – Uskoplje, Bugojno, Jajce, Banja Luka, Srbac and reaches the river Sava in the north. The Vrbas flows through the central part of Bosnia and flows outwards to the North. The Bosna is the longest river in Bosnia and is fully contained within the country as it stretches from its source near Sarajevo to the river Sava in the north. It gave its name to the country. The Drina flows through the eastern part of Bosnia, at many places in the border between Bosnia and Serbia. The Drina flows through the cities of Foča, Goražde Višegrad and Zvornik. The Neretva is the longest river in Herzegovina, flowing from Jablanica south to the Adriatic Sea. The river is famous as it flows through the city of Mostar. The Sava is the longest river in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, within Bosnia and Herzegovina, it only runs along the border with Croatia. It then flows into Serbia. Towns like Brčko, Bosanski Šamac, and Bosanska Gradiška lie on the river. Phytogeography Phytogeographically, Bosnia and Herzegovina belongs to the Boreal Kingdom and is shared between the Illyrian province of the Circumboreal Region and Adriatic province of the Mediterranean Region. According to the WWF, the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina can be subdivided into three ecoregions: the Pannonian mixed forests, Dinaric Mountains mixed forests and Illyrian deciduous forests. Climate The western and southern parts of the country have a transitional Mediterranean climate. The hills and mountains are drier, colder, windier, and cloudier. The north region has a typical continental climate. Climate change Mining industry Various archaeological artifacts including relicts of mining activities and tools belonging to similar age groups, provide an indication of the geographical distribution, scale and methods of mining activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina during the Paleolithic to Roman era. Most important of these is the so-called area of “central Bosnian mountains” located between the rivers Vrbas, Lašva, Neretva, Rama and their tributaries. The second one is the area of western Bosnia, bordered by the Vrbas and Una rivers, with its main orebearing formations found in the river-valleys of Sana and Japra, and their tributaries. The third area is eastern Bosnia, around the river Drina between the towns of Foča and Zvornik, the principal mining activity centered around Srebrenica. Ores of various metals, including iron, are found in these areas and exploitation has been going on for more than 5000 years – from the period of prehistoric human settlers, through Illyrian, Roman, Slavic, Turkish and Austrian rulers, into the present. Land use Arable land: 19.73% Permanent crops: 2.06% Other: 78.22% (2012 est.) Irrigated land: (2003) Total renewable water resources: (2011) Environment Natural hazards: Destructive earthquakes Current issues: Air pollution from metallurgical plants Sites for disposing of urban waste are limited Widespread casualties, water shortages, and destruction of infrastructure because of the 1992–95 war Deforestation International agreements: Party to: Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands Signed, but not ratified: none Gallery See also Environment of Bosnia and Herzegovina Geography of Europe List of cities in Bosnia and Herzegovina References Notes
Demographic features of the population of Bosnia and Herzegovina include population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. Demographic characteristics Population Vital statistics Source: Agency for Statistics of Bosnia and Herzegovina *No data for the period 1992-1995 Current vital statistics Structure of the population Vital statistics by entity Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Source: Institute for Statistics of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Current vital statistics Republika Srpska Source: Republika Srpska Institute of Statistics Current vital statistics Brčko District Source: Agency for Statistics of Bosnia and Herzegovina - Statistics of the Brčko District BiH Current vital statistics Marriages and divorces Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Republika Srpska Brčko District Life expectancy at birth in Bosnia and Herzegovina Ethnic groups According to data from the 2013 census published by the Agency for Statistics of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosniaks constitute 50.11% of the population, Bosnian Serbs 30.78%, Bosnian Croats 15.43%, and others form 2.73%, with the remaining respondents not declaring their ethnicity or not answering. The census results are contested by the Republika Srpska statistical office and by Bosnian Serb politicians, who oppose the inclusion of non-permanent Bosnian residents in the figures. The European Union's statistics office, Eurostat, determined that the methodology used by the Bosnian statistical agency was in line with international recommendations. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, religion is often linked to ethnicity, i.e. (with the exception of agnostics and atheists) most Bosniaks are Muslim, Serbs are Orthodox Christian, and Croats are Roman Catholic. Languages Bosnia's constitution does not specify any official languages; however, academics Hilary Footitt and Michael Kelly note that the Dayton Agreement states that it is "done in Bosnian, Croatian, English and Serbian", and they describe this as the "de facto recognition of three official languages" at the state level. The equal status of Bosnian, Serbian and Croatian was verified by the Constitutional Court in 2000. It ruled that the provisions of the Federation and Republika Srpska constitutions on language were incompatible with the state constitution, since they only recognised "Bosniak" and Croatian (in the case of the Federation) and Serbian (in the case of Republika Srpska) as official languages at the entity level. As a result, the wording of the entity constitutions was changed and all three languages were made official in both entities. The three languages are mutually intelligible and are also known collectively as Serbo-Croatian. Use of one of the three varieties has become a marker of ethnic identity. Michael Kelly and Catherine Baker argue: "The three official languages of today's Bosnian state...represent the symbolic assertion of national identity over the pragmatism of mutual intelligibility". All standard varieties are based on the Ijekavian varieties of the Shtokavian dialect (non-standard spoken varieties including, beside Ijekavian, also Ikavian Shtokavian). Serbian and Bosnian are written in both Latin and Cyrillic (the latter predominantly using the Latin script), whereas Croatian is written only in Latin alphabet. There are also some speakers of Italian, German, Turkish and Ladino. Yugoslav Sign Language is used with Croatian and Serbian variants. According to the results of the 2013 census, 52.86% of the population consider their mother tongue to be Bosnian, 30.76% Serbian, 14.6% Croatian and 1.57% another language, with 0.21% not giving an answer. Religion According to the 2013 census, 50.7% of the population identify religiously as Muslim, 30.75% as Serbian Orthodox Christian, 15.19% as Roman Catholic, 1.15% as other, 1.1% as agnostic or atheist, with the remainder not declaring their religion or not answering. A 2012 survey found that 47% of Bosnia's Muslims are non-denominational Muslims, while 45% follow Sunnism. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, religion is strongly linked to ethnicity. Demographic statistics The following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated. Population 3,378,821 Age structure 0-14 years: 13.18% (male 261,430/female 244,242) 15-24 years: 10.83% (male 214,319/female 201,214) 25-54 years: 44.52% (male 859,509/female 848,071) 55-64 years: 15.24% (male 284,415/female 300,168) 65 years and over: 16.22% (male 249,624/female 372,594) (2020 est.) Median age Total: 43.3 years Male: 41.6 years Female: 44.8 years (2020 est.) Sex ratio At birth: 1.07 male(s)/female 0-14 years: 1.07 male(s)/female 15-24 years: 1.07 male(s)/female 25-54 years: 1.01 male(s)/female 55-64 years: 0.95 male(s)/female 65 years and over: 0.67 male(s)/female Total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2020 est.) Infant mortality rate Total: 5.32 deaths/1,000 live births Male: 5.44 deaths/1,000 live births Female: 5.19 deaths/1,000 live births (2021 est.) Life expectancy at birth Total population: 77.74 years Male: 74.76 years Female: 80.93 years (2021 est.) HIV/AIDS Adult prevalence rate: less than 0.1% (2018) People living with HIV/AIDS: Less than 500 (2018) Deaths: less than 100 (2018) Literacy Definition: age 15 and over can read and write Total population: 98.5% Male: 99.5% Female: 97.5% (2015 est.) See also Demographic history of Bosnia and Herzegovina Demographics of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia Demographics of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia Demographics of Croatia Demographics of Montenegro Demographics of Serbia Bosnia and Herzegovina Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Republika Srpska Brčko District List of Bosnians and Herzegovinians Religion: Islam in Bosnia and Herzegovina Serbian Orthodox Church Roman Catholicism in Bosnia and Herzegovina Jews in Bosnia and Herzegovina Groups: Ethnic groups in Bosnia and Herzegovina Roma in Bosnia and Herzegovina References External links Living standard measurement survey 2001 Demographics of Yugoslavia
Bosnia and Herzegovina has facilities for road, rail and air transport. There are five international road routes and 20 state highways, with bus connections to many countries. Railways total just over 1,000 km with links to Croatia and Serbia. There are 25 airports, seven of them with paved runways. The Sava River is navigable, but its use is limited. Roadways total: 21,846 km paved: 11,425 km (4,686 km of interurban roads) unpaved: 10,421 km (2006) Roads International E65 E73 (Pan-European corridor Vc), A1 highway E661 E761 E762 State highways M-1.8 M-2 M-4 M-4.2 M-5 M-6 M-6.1 M-8 M-11 M-14 M-14.1 M-14.2 M-15 M-16 M-16.1 M-16.2 M-16.3 M-16.4 M-17 M-17.2 M-17.3 M-18 M-19 M-19.2 M-19.3 M-20 National and international bus services Bosnia & Herzegovina is well connected to other countries in Europe. The main bus station of Sarajevo has its own website. The main provider of international bus connection in Bosnia & Herzegovina is Eurolines. There are routes to Croatia, Germany, Austria, France, Netherlands, Montenegro, Belgium, Denmark, Sweden and Serbia. Despite Bosnia & Herzegovina's geographical closeness to Serbia, there is only one bus a day, which takes more than 8 hours due to the lack of proper roads. Railways Total: 1,032 km standard gauge: (2006) Rail links with adjacent countries Same gauge: Croatia - yes Serbia - yes Montenegro - no Waterways Sava River (northern border) open to shipping but use is limited (2008) Ports and harbours Gradiška, Brod, Šamac, and Brčko (all inland waterway ports on the Sava none of which are fully operational), Orašje, Bosnia Merchant marine none (1999 est.) Airports Air transport begin in Bosnia and Herzegovina during the period of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia when the flag-carrier Aeroput inaugurated a regular flight linking the national capital Belgrade with Podgorica in 1930, with a stop in Sarajevo. A year later Aeroput inaugurated another regular flight starting in Belgrade and then stopping in Sarajevo and continuing towards Split, Sušak and Zagreb. By mid-1930s Aeroput inaugurated two routes linking Belgrade and Zagreb with Dubrovnik through Sarajevo, and, in 1938, it inaugurated an international route linking Dubrovnik, which was becoming a major holiday destination, through Sarajevo, to Zagreb, Vienna, Brno and Prague. 25 (2008) Airports - with paved runways total: 7 2,438 to 3,047 m: 4 1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 under 914 m: 2 (2008) Airports - with unpaved runways total: 18 1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 914 to 1,523 m: 7 under 914 m: 10 (2008) Heliports 6 (2013) See also Bosnia and Herzegovina References External links We recommend to use for travel shuttle bus transfers in Bosnia and Hercegovina. It is one of the easiest ways to travel here.
The implementation of the Dayton Accords of 1995 has focused the efforts of policymakers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the international community, on regional stabilization in the countries-successors of the former Yugoslavia. Relations with its neighbors of Croatia and Serbia have been fairly stable since the signing of the Dayton Agreement in 1995. Diplomatic relations List of countries with which Bosnia and Herzegovina maintains diplomatic relations with: Bilateral relations EU accession The accession of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the European Union is one of the main political objectives of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Stabilisation and Association Process (SAP) is the EU's policy framework. Countries participating in the SAP have been offered the possibility to become, once they fulfill the necessary conditions, member states of the EU. Bosnia and Herzegovina is therefore a potential candidate country for EU accession. International organizations Bank for International Settlements, Council of Europe, Central European Initiative, EBRD, Energy Community United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, FAO, Group of 77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, International Criminal Court, International Development Association, IFAD, International Finance Corporation, IFRCS, ILO, International Monetary Fund, International Maritime Organization, Interpol, IOC, International Organization for Migration (observer), ISO, ITU, Non-Aligned Movement (guest), Organization of American States (observer), OIC (observer), OPCW, Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, Southeast European Cooperative Initiative, United Nations, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMEE, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer) See also Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Monetary Fund List of diplomatic missions in Bosnia and Herzegovina List of diplomatic missions of Bosnia and Herzegovina Visa requirements for Bosnia and Herzegovina citizens Foreign relations of Yugoslavia References External links Ministry of Foreign Affairs - policy priorities
The Batswana, a term also used to denote all citizens of Botswana, refers to the country's major ethnic group (called the Tswana in Southern Africa). Prior to European contact, the Batswana lived as herders and farmers under tribal rule. Before European contact The Tsodilo Hills site in north-west Botswana has been apparently continuously inhabited since 17 000 BC. The forebears of today's Khoe-Kwadi, Kx’a and Tuu-speaking peoples (“Khoisan”) are thought to have lived in the area now corresponding to Botswana for many thousands of years. In October 2019, researchers reported that Botswana was likely the region where modern humans first developed about 200,000-300,000 years ago. Sometime between 200 and 500 AD, the Bantu-speaking people who were living in the Katanga area (today part of the DRC and Zambia) crossed the Limpopo River, entering the area today known as South Africa as part of the Bantu expansion. There were 2 broad waves of immigration to South Africa; Nguni and Sotho-Tswana. The former settled in the eastern coastal regions, while the latter settled primarily in the area known today as the Highveld—the large, relatively high central plateau of South Africa. By 1000 AD the Bantu colonization of the eastern half of South Africa had been completed (but not Western Cape and Northern Cape, which are believed to have been inhabited by “Khoisan” peoples until Dutch colonisation). The Bantu-speaking societies were highly decentralized, organized on a basis of enlarged clans (kraals) headed by a chief, who owed a hazy allegiance to the nation's head chief. Bechuanaland Protectorate In the late 19th century, hostilities broke out between the Shona inhabitants of Botswana and Ndebele tribes who were migrating into the territory from the Kalahari Desert. Tensions also escalated with the Boer settlers from the Transvaal. To block Boer and German expansionism the British Government on 31 March 1885 put "Bechuanaland" under its protection. The northern territory remained under direct administration as the Bechuanaland Protectorate and is today's Botswana, while the southern territory became British Bechuanaland which ten years later became part of the Cape Colony and is now part of the northwest province of South Africa; the majority of Setswana-speaking people today live in South Africa. The Tati Concessions Land, formerly part of the Matabele kingdom, was administered from the Bechuanaland Protectorate after 1893, to which it was formally annexed in 1911. To safeguard the integrity of the Protectorate against the perceived threats from the British South Africa Company and Southern Rhodesia, the three Batswana leaders Khama III, Bathoen I, and Sebele I travelled to London in 1895 to ask Joseph Chamberlain and Queen Victoria for assurances. When the Union of South Africa was formed in 1910 out of the main British colonies in the region, the Bechuanaland Protectorate (now Botswana), Basutoland (now Lesotho), and Swaziland (now Eswatini) (the "High Commission Territories") were not included, but provision was made for their later incorporation. However, a vague undertaking was given to consult their inhabitants, and although successive South African governments sought to have the territories transferred, Britain kept delaying, and it never occurred. The election of the National Party government in 1948, which instituted apartheid, and South Africa's withdrawal from the Commonwealth in 1961, ended any prospect of incorporation of the territories into South Africa. An expansion of British central authority and the evolution of tribal government resulted in the 1920 establishment of two advisory councils representing Africans and Europeans. Proclamations in 1934 regularized tribal rule and powers. A European-African advisory council was formed in 1951, and the 1961 constitution established a consultative legislative council. Following the British entry into World War II, the decision was taken to draw recruits from the High Commission Territories (HTC) of Swaziland, Basutoland and Bechuanaland. Black citizens from the HTC were to be recruited into the African Auxiliary Pioneer Corps (AAPC) labor unit due to Afrikaner opposition to armed black units. Mobilization for the AAPC was launched in late July 1941 and by October 18,000 personnel had arrived in the Middle East. The AAPC performed a wide range of manual labor, providing logistical support to the Allied war effort during the North African, Dodecanese and Italian campaigns. During the Italian campaign some AAPC relieved British field artillery units of their duty. Independent Botswana In June 1966, Britain accepted proposals for democratic self-government in Botswana. The seat of government was moved from Mafeking, South Africa, to newly established Gaborone in 1965. The 1965 constitution led to the first general elections and to independence on 30 September 1966. Seretse Khama, a leader in the independence movement and the legitimate claimant to the Ngwato chiefship, was elected as the first president, re-elected twice, and died in office in 1980. The presidency passed to the sitting vice president, Ketumile Masire, who was elected in his own right in 1984 and re-elected in 1989 and 1994. Masire retired from office in 1998. The presidency passed to the sitting vice president, Festus Mogae, who was elected in his own right in 1999 and re-elected in 2004. In April 2008, Excellency the former President Lieutenant General Dr Seretse Khama Ian Khama (Ian Khama), son of Seretse Khama the first president, succeeded to the presidency when Festus Mogae retired. On 1 April 2018 Mokgweetsi Eric Keabetswe Masisi was sworn in as the 5th President of Botswana succeeding Ian Khama. He represents the Botswana Democratic Party, which has also won a majority in every parliamentary election since independence. All the previous presidents have also represented the same party. See also List of commissioners of Bechuanaland Heads of government of Botswana History of Africa History of Southern Africa History of Gaborone Timeline of Gaborone List of presidents of Botswana Politics of Botswana Postage stamps and postal history of Bechuanaland Protectorate Footnotes References Further reading Acemoglu, Daron, Simon Johnson, and James A. Robinson. "An African success story: Botswana." (2002). online Cohen, Dennis L. "The Botswana Political Elite: Evidence from the 1974 General Election," Journal of Southern African Affairs, (1979) 4, 347–370. Colclough, Christopher and Stephen McCarthy. The Political Economy of Botswana: A Study of Growth and Income Distribution (Oxford University Press, 1980) Edge, Wayne A. and Mogopodi H. Lekorwe eds. Botswana: Politics and Society (Pretoria: J.L. van Schaik, 1998) Fawcus, Peter and Alan Tilbury. Botswana: The Road to Independence (Pula Press, 2000) Good, Kenneth. "Interpreting the Exceptionality of Botswana," Journal of Modern African Studies (1992) 30, 69–95. Good, Kenneth. "Corruption and Mismanagement in Botswana: A Best-Case Example?" Journal of Modern African Studies, (1994) 32, 499–521. Parsons, Neil. King Khama, Emperor Joe and the Great White Queen (University of Chicago Press, 1998) Parsons, Neil, Thomas Tlou and Willie Henderson. Seretse Khama, 1921-1980 (Bloemfontein: Macmillan, 1995) Samatar, Abdi Ismail. An African miracle: State and class leadership and colonial legacy in Botswana development (Heinemann Educational Books, 1999) Thomas Tlou & Alec Campbell, History of Botswana (Gaborone: Macmillan, 2nd edn. 1997) Chirenje, J. Mutero, Church, State, and Education in Bechuanaland in the Nineteenth Century, International Journal of African Historical Studies, (1976) Chirenje, J. Mutero, Chief Kgama and His Times, 1835-1923 External links Brief History of Botswana Bibliography of Botswana History University of Botswana History Department - various resources History of Southern Africa by country
Botswana is a landlocked country located in Southern Africa, north of South Africa. Botswana occupies an area of , of which are land. Botswana has land boundaries of combined length , of which the constituent boundaries are shared with Namibia, for ; South Africa ; Zimbabwe, and Zambia, . Much of the population of Botswana is concentrated in the eastern part of the country. Sunshine totals are high all year round although winter is the sunniest period. The whole country is windy and dusty during the dry season. Geography The land is predominantly flat to gently undulating tableland, although there is some hilly country, where mining is carried out. The Kalahari Desert is in the central and the southwest. The Okavango Delta, one of the world's largest inland deltas, is in the northwest and the Makgadikgadi Pans, a large salt pan lies in the north-central area. The Makgadikgadi has been established as an early habitation area for primitive man; This large seasonal wetland is composed of several large component pans, the largest being Nwetwe Pan, Sua Pan and Nxai Pan. Botswana's lowest elevation point is at the junction of the Limpopo and Shashe Rivers, at a height of . The highest point is Monalanong Hill, at . The country is divided into four drainage regions, which are sometimes indistinct due to the arid nature of the climate: the Chobe River on the border with the Caprivi Strip of Namibia together with a small adjacent swampy area is part of the Zambezi basin; most of the north and central region of the country is part of the Okavango inland drainage basin; the easternmost part of the country falls into the Limpopo drainage basin; the southern and southwestern regions, which are the driest of all, are drained by the Molopo river along the South African border and the Nossob river through the Kalahari Gemsbok National Park, and are technically part of the basin of the Orange River. None of these rivers normally flows as far as the Orange, however. (The last recorded confluence was in the 1880s.) Except for the Chobe, Okavango, Boteti and Limpopo rivers, most of Botswana's rivers cease to flow during the dry and early rainy seasons. Climate Botswana is semi-arid, due to the short rain season. However, the relatively high altitude of the country and its continental situation gives it a subtropical climate. The country is remote from moisture-laden air flows for most of the year. The dry season lasts from April to October in the south and to November in the north where, however, rainfall totals are higher. The south of the country is most exposed to cold winds during the winter period (early May to late August) when average temperatures are around . The whole country has hot summers with average temperatures around . Sunshine totals are high all year round although winter is the sunniest period. The whole country is windy and dusty during the dry season. Natural hazards Botswana is affected by periodic droughts, and seasonal August winds blow from the west, carrying sand and dust, which can obscure visibility. Environment Current environmental issues in Botswana are overgrazing, desertification and the existence of only limited fresh water resources. Research from scientists has found that the common practice of overstocking cattle to cope with drought losses actually depletes scarce biomass, making ecosystems more vulnerable. The study of the district predicts that by 2050 the cycle of mild drought is likely to become shorter —18 months instead of two years—due to climate change. International agreements Botswana is a party to the following international agreements: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Organization, Ozone Layer Protection and Wetlands. Extreme points This is a list of the extreme points of Botswana, the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location. Northernmost point – the border with Zambia upon the Zambezi River at Chobe District Easternmost point – the tripoint with South Africa and Zimbabwe, Central District Southernmost point – Bokspits, Kgalagadi District Westernmost point – the western section of the border with Namibia* note: Botswana does not have a westernmost point as the western section is formed by the 22nd meridian of longitude east of Greenwich. References Climate change in Botswana
Demographic features of the population of Botswana include population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects. Botswana, like many nations in southern Africa, suffers from a high HIV infection rate, estimated among adults ages 15 to 49 to be 20.7%. Population Census results Bechuanaland Protectorate The seven censuses of Botswana before its independence happened irregularly. Due to the Anglo-Boer War, the first census of Bechuanaland Protectorate, originally set to occur in 1901, took place on 17 April 1904. The 1931 census was postponed to 1936 because of the Great Depression. The early censuses were unreliable and took several years to tabulate; the results were outdated by the time they were calculated. Post-independence There have been six censuses after the independence of Botswana, each occurring every ten years in the year ending in 1 (i.e. 1971, 1981, 1991, 2001, 2011 and 2022). The 1971 census was the first census in Botswana to use de facto enumeration; this method counts people based on how many people spent census night at a specific location. Previously, the citizens were counted based on their usual place of residence. The 2001 census was the first census in Botswana to comply with the SADC 2000 Census Project, the guidelines of which unify the demographic statistics in southern Africa. The 2011 Census was the fifth census after independence the 2011 Botswana Population and Housing Census, it occurred in August 2011. The most recent sixth and most recent census is the 2022 Population and Housing Census which was carried out in April 2022. UN estimates According to the total population was in , compared to only 413,000 in 1950. The proportion of children below the age of 15 in 2020 was about 33.4%, 62.1% were between 15 and 65 years of age, while 4.5% of the population were 65 years or older. Population Estimates by Sex and Age Group (01.VII.2020) (Based on the results of the 2011 Population Census.): Vital statistics United Nations estimates Registration of vital events is in Botswana not complete. The Population Department of the United Nations prepared the following estimates. Population estimates account for under numeration in population censuses. Births and deaths Source: Vital Statistics Report 2012. Life expectancy at birth Life expectancy from 1950 to 2020 (UN World Population Prospects): Ethnic groups Tswana 79%, Kalanga 11%, Basarwa 3%, Other 7% (including Kgalagadi, Indians and Whites). Languages Setswana 77.3%, Kalanga 7.4%, Sekgalagadi 3.4%, English 2.8%, Shona 2.0%, Sesarwa 1.7%, Sehambukushu 1.6%, Ndebele 1.0%, Others 2.8%. (2011 est.) Religions Christian 79.1%, Badimo 4.1%, Other 1.4% (includes the Baháʼí Faith, Hindu, Islam, Rastafari), None 15.2%, Unspecified 0.3% (2011 est.) Other demographic statistics Demographic statistics according to the World Population Review in 2022. One birth every 10 minutes One death every 37 minutes One net migrant every 180 minutes Net gain of one person every 12 minutes The following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook. Population 2,359,609 (2022) 2,350,667 (July 2021 est.) 2,214,858 (July 2017 est.) Religions Christian 79.1%, Badimo 4.1%, other 1.4% (includes Baha'i, Hindu, Muslim, Rastafarian), none 15.2%, unspecified 0.3% (2011 est.) Age structure 0-14 years: 30.54% (male 357,065/female 350,550) 15-24 years: 18.31% (male 208,824/female 215,462) 25-54 years: 39.67% (male 434,258/female 484,922) 55-64 years: 5.92% (male 59,399/female 77,886) 65 years and over: 5.56% (male 53,708/female 75,159) (2020 est.) Total fertility rate 2.39 children born/woman (2022 est.) Country comparison to the world: 74th The total fertility rate is 2.42 children born/woman (2021 est.) Country comparison to the world: 74th Population growth rate 1.4% (2022 est.) Country comparison to the world: 68th 1.43% (2021 est.) Country comparison to the world: 67th 1.55% (2017 est.) Birth rate 20.28 births/1,000 population (2022 est.) Country comparison to the world: 70th 20.6 births/1,000 population (2021 est.) Country comparison to the world: 71st 22.1 births/1,000 population (2017 est.) Death rate 9.05 deaths/1,000 population (2022 est.) Country comparison to the world: 59th 9.12 deaths/1,000 population (2021 est.) Country comparison to the world: 61st 9.6 deaths/1,000 population (2017 est.) Median age Total: 25.7 years. Country comparison to the world: 157th Male: 24.5 years Female: 26.7 years (2020 est.) Total: 24.5 years Male: 23.5 years Female: 25.6 years (2017 est.) Net migration rate 2.81 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2022 est.) Country comparison to the world: 41st 2.85 migrants/1,000 population (2021 est.) Country comparison to the world: 38th Urbanization urban population: 72.2% of total population (2022) rate of urbanization: 2.47% annual rate of change (2020-25 est.) Urban population: 70.9% of total population (2020) Rate of urbanization: 2.87% annual rate of change (2015–20 est.) Sex ratio At birth: 1.03 male(s)/female 0-14 years: 1.02 male(s)/female 15-24 years: 0.97 male(s)/female 25-54 years: 0.9 male(s)/female 55-64 years: 0.76 male(s)/female 65 years and over: 0.71 male(s)/female Total population: 0.93 male(s)/female (2020 est.) Life expectancy at birth total population: 65.64 years male: 63.6 years female: 67.74 years (2022 est.) Country comparison to the world: 200th Total population: 65.2 years Male: 63.2 years Female: 67.3 years (2021 est.) Contraceptive prevalence rate 67.4% (2017) Maternal mortality rate 144 deaths/100,000 live births (2017 est.) Country comparison to the world: 59th HIV/AIDS Adult prevalence rate: 22.2% (2019 est.) People living with HIV/AIDS: 380,000 (2019 est.) Deaths due to AIDS: 5,000 (2019 est.) Country comparison to the world: 25th Physicians density 0.53 physicians/1,000 population (2016) Hospital bed density 1.8 beds/1,000 population (2010) Obesity - adult prevalence rate 18.9% (2016) Major infectious diseases Degree of risk: high (2020) Food or waterborne diseases: bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever Vectorborne disease: malaria Nationality Noun: Motswana (singular), Batswana (plural) Adjective: Motswana (singular), Batswana (plural) Literacy Definition: age 15 and over can read and write Total population: 88.5% Male: 88% Female: 88.9% (2015 est.) Education expenditure 8.7% of total GDP (2007) Sanitation facility access Improved: Urban: 92.9% of population Rural: 60.8% of population Total: 82.8% of population Unimproved: Urban: 7.1% of population Rural: 39.2% of population Total: 17.2% of population (2017 est.) Migrants According to the United Nations, there were 110,596 international migrants in Botswana in 2019. Their most common countries of origin were as follows: References Botswana Demographics 2001 Central Statistics Office (Botswana), Census and Demographic Statistics for the year 2001.
Telecommunications in Botswana include newspapers, radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet. In addition to the government-owned newspaper and national radio network, there is an active, independent press (six weekly newspapers). Foreign publications are sold without restriction in Botswana. Two privately owned radio stations began operations in 1999. Botswana's first national television station, the government-owned Botswana Television (BTV), was launched in July 2000. It began broadcasting with three hours of programming on weekdays and five on weekends, offering news in Setswana and English, entertainment, and sports, with plans to produce 60% of its programming locally. The cellular phone providers Orange and MTN cover most of the country. Radio stations 2 state-owned national radio stations; 3 privately owned radio stations broadcast locally (2007); AM 8, FM 13, shortwave 4 (2001). Television stations One state-owned and one privately owned; privately owned satellite TV subscription service is available (2007). Television sets in use: 101,713 (2001); 98,568 (2003). 173,327 (2006) 297,233 (2008) 297,971 (2011) 365,650 (2014). Telephones Main lines in use: 160,500 lines, 134th in the world (2012); 136,900 (2006). Mobile cellular in use: 3.1 million lines, 129th in the world (2012); Telephone system general assessment: Botswana is participating in regional development efforts; expanding fully digital system with fiber-optic cables linking the major population centers in the east as well as a system of open-wire lines, microwave radio relays links, and radiotelephone communication stations (2011); domestic: fixed-line teledensity has declined in recent years and now stands at roughly 7 telephones per 100 persons; mobile-cellular teledensity now pushing 140 telephones per 100 persons (2011); international: country code - 267; international calls are made via satellite, using international direct dialing; 2 international exchanges; digital microwave radio relay links to Namibia, Zambia, Zimbabwe, and South Africa; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean) (2011). ISDB-T Features: Supports ISDB-T broadcast (13 segments). MPEG-2/ MPEG-4 AVC/ H.264 HD/ SD video. DiVX Compatible with 480i / 480p / 720p / 1080i/ 1080p video formats. Auto and manually scan all available TV and radio channels. Aspect ratio 16:9 and 4:3. 1000 channels memory. Parental control. Teletext / Bit map subtitle. Compliant with ETSI. Supported 7 days EPG function. VBI Teletext support 6 MHz software setting Auto / Manual program search. Multi language supported. Internet Internet top-level domain: .bw Internet users: 241,272 users, 148th in the world; 11.5% of the population, 166th in the world (2012); 120,000 users, 154th in the world (2009); 80,000 users (2007). Internet broadband: 16,407 fixed broadband subscriptions, 134th in the world; 0.8% of the population, 143rd in the world; 348,124 wireless broadband subscriptions, 102nd in the world; 16.6% of the population, 76th in the world. Internet hosts: 1,806 hosts (2012); 6,374 hosts (2008). Internet IPv4 addresses: 100,096 addresses allocated, less than 0.05% of the world total, 47.7 addresses per 1000 people (2012). Internet Service Providers: 11 ISPs (2001); 2 ISPs (1999). ADSL has been introduced in the following areas: Gaborone, Tlkokweng, Mogoditsane, Phakalane, Francistown, Lobatse, Palapye, Maun, Kasane, Selibe-Phikwe, Letlhakane, Jwaneng, and Orapa. See also Botswana Botswana Television Media of Botswana Internet in Botswana Botswana Internet Exchange Telephone numbers in Botswana Botswana Communications Regulatory Authority References External links Botswana Communications Regulatory Authority (BOCRA).
Botswana has put a premium on economic and political integration in southern Africa. It has sought to make the Southern African Development Community (SADC) a working vehicle for economic development, and it has promoted efforts to make the region self-policing in terms of preventive diplomacy, conflict resolution, and good governance. Diplomatic relations List of countries with which Botswana maintains diplomatic relations: Bilateral relations Botswana and the Commonwealth of Nations Botswana has been a republic in the Commonwealth of Nations since independence in 1966. See also List of diplomatic missions in Botswana List of diplomatic missions of Botswana Notes References External links Embassy of the Russian Federation in Gaborone Botswana and the Commonwealth of Nations
Brazil has both modern technologies in the center-south portion, counting with LTE, 3G HSPA, DSL ISDB based Digital TV. Other areas of the country, particularly the North and Northeast regions, lack even basic analog PSTN telephone lines. This is a problem that the government is trying to solve by linking the liberation of new technologies such as WiMax and FTTH) only tied with compromises on extension of the service to less populated regions. Telephone system Landline The Brazilian landline sector is fully open to competition and continues to attract operators. The bulk of the market is divided between three operators: Telefónica, América Móvil, and Oi (controlled by Brazilian investors and Pharol SGPS). Telefónica operates through Telefónica Brasil, which has integrated its landline and mobile services under the brand name Vivo. The América Móvil group in Brazil comprises long distance incumbent Embratel, mobile operator Claro, and cable TV provider Net Serviços. The group has started to integrate its landline and mobile services under the brand name Claro, previously used only for mobile services. Oi offers landline and mobile services under the Oi brand name. GVT was the country's most successful alternative network provider, offering landline services only, until it was acquired by Telefónica in 2015 and integrated into Vivo. National: extensive microwave radio relay system and a national satellite system with 64 earth stations. International: country code - 55; landing point for a number of submarine cables, including Atlantis 2, that provide direct links to South and Central America, the Caribbean, the US, Africa, and Europe; satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean), 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic Ocean region east), connected by microwave relay system to Mercosur Brazilsat B3 satellite earth station (2007) Statistics Served locations: 37,355 Installed terminals: 43,626,836 In service: 33,800,370 Public terminals: 1,128,350 Density: 22,798 Phones/100 Hab Mobile The history of mobile telephony in Brazil began on 30 December 1990, when the Cellular Mobile System began operating in the city of Rio de Janeiro, with a capacity for 10,000 terminals. At that time, according to Anatel (the national telecommunications agency), there were 667 devices in the country. The number of devices rose to 6,700 in the next year, to 30,000 in 1992. In November 2007 3G services were launched, and increased rapidly to almost 90% of the population in 2012 and the agreements signed as part of the auction specify a 3G coverage obligation of 100% of population by 2019. After the auction that took place in June 2012, LTE tests were undertaken in several cities, tourist locations and international conference venues. The first LTE-compatible devices became available in the local market and LTE services was commercially launched in 2013. Under the 4G licence terms, operators were required to have commercial networks in all twelve state capitals which are acting as host cities for the 2014 FIFA World Cup. 5G services were commercially launched in 2020, initially only in a few cities and in DSS mode. In 2021, the regulatory agency Anatel carried out the auction of the 3.5 GHz spectrum, which allowed the operation of 5G in standalone mode (SA). In July 2022, Brasília was the first city to have 5G NR SA made available, with all state capitals being served by the three major carriers by the end of 2022. By July 2023, 753 cities had 5G coverage, which accounts for 46% of the country's population. The mobile market is ruled by 3 companies: Vivo, controlled by the Spanish Telefónica, is the leading mobile and landline carrier in Brazil. In 1Q2023, Vivo served 98 million mobile subscribers. Claro, controlled by the Mexican América Móvil (owned by Carlos Slim), ranks second in Brazilian mobile market. In 1Q2023, Claro served 82.8 million mobile subscribers. TIM, controlled by the Italian Telecom Italia is the third largest mobile carrier in Brazil. In 1Q2023, TIM served 61.7 million mobile subscribers. Oi, which was once Brazil's fourth-largest mobile carrier, filed for judicial reorganization in 2016, selling its mobile division (Oi Móvel) in 2020 to a consortium formed by the three largest operators. In 2022, the sale was approved by the regulatory agency Anatel and Oi's 36.5 million mobile customers were transferred to TIM (40%), Claro (32%) and Vivo (28%). Algar Telecom is the largest regional mobile carrier, operating in 4 states. The company's customers have national coverage through roaming agreements with the three major telcos. In 1Q2023, Algar Telecom served 4.5 million mobile subscribers. Statistics Number of devices: 251.203.715 Percentage of prepaid lines: 43.62% Density: 98.7 phones/100 hab Technology distribution International backbones Submarine cables Several submarine cables link Brazil to the world: Americas II cable entered operations in September 2000, connecting Brazil (Fortaleza) to United States. ATLANTIS-2, with around 12 thousand kilometers in extension, operating since 2000, it connects Brazil (Rio de Janeiro and Natal) to Europe, Africa and South America. This is the only cable that connects South America to Africa and Europe. EMERGIA – SAM 1 cable connects all three Americas, surrounding it with a total extension of more than 25 thousand kilometers. GLOBAL CROSSING - SAC Connects all Americas, surrounding them with a total extension of more than 15 thousand kilometers. GLOBENET/360 NETWORK Another link from North America to South America. UNISUR Interconnects Brazil, Uruguay and Argentina. All these cables have a bandwidth from 20 Gbit/s to 80 Gbit/s, and some have a projected final capacity of more than 1 Tbit/s. Satellite connections List of business and satellites they operate (Brazilian Geostationary Satellites) Television and radio Under the Brazilian constitution, television and radio are not treated as forms of telecommunication, in order to avoid creating problems with a series of regulations that reduce and control how international businesses and individuals can participate. Brazil has the second largest media conglomerate in the world in terms of revenue, Grupo Globo. Internet The Internet has become quite popular in Brazil, with steadily growing numbers of users as well as increased availability. Brazil holds the 6th spot in number of users worldwide. Many technologies are used to bring broadband Internet to consumers, with DSL and cable being the most common (respectively, about 13 million and 9 million connections), and 3G technologies. 4G technologies were introduced in April 2013 and presently are available in over 90% of the country. See also List of telecommunications companies in Brazil References External links Brazilian National Telecommunications Agency Brazilian Ministry of Communications Brazil, SubmarineCableMap.com Brazil
The British Virgin Islands (BVI) are one of three political divisions of the Virgin Islands archipelago located in the Lesser Antilles, between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean. The BVI are the easternmost part of the island chain. The land area totals () (about 0.9 times the size of Washington, DC) and comprises 16 inhabited and more than 20 uninhabited islands. The islands of Tortola (), Anegada (), Virgin Gorda () and Jost van Dyke () are the largest. Maritime claims include territorial sea and a exclusive fishing zone. In terms of land use, it is 20% arable land, 6.67% permanent crops and 73.33% other as of a 2005 figure. It has strong ties to nearby U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico. Terrain The majority of the islands are steep and hilly due to their volcanic origin. The lowest point of the island chain is the Caribbean Sea while the highest point is Mount Sage at above sea level and there are of coastline. Other than Anegada, the islands are composed of pyroclastic rock and mixed deposits of diorite and tonalite Anegada is geologically distinct, being composed of carbonate reef deposits. The entire archipelago, together with Puerto Rico to the west, is the above-water high points on an underwater ridge that was once a continuous land mass during the Pleistocene epoch. This bank formed from tectonic forces at the boundary where the Caribbean Plate collides with the North American Plate. Settlements The capital of the territory and the main port of entry for yachts and cruise ships visiting the BVI is Road Town on Tortola. In 2010, The United Nations found that 83% or the BVI population lived on Tortola, making Road Town the largest population center of the islands. Spanish Town on Virgin Gorda, also known as "The Valley", is the second largest settlement and the original capital of the territory. Virgin Gorda was mined for copper in the 17th through 19th centuries but declined when the mine closed in 1867. The creation of a yacht harbour and resort by Laurance Rockefeller in the early 1960s turned Spanish Town into a wealthy tourist destination. Residents on Jost van Dyke, Anegada, Cooper lsland, Great Camanoe Island and other locations collectively make up just over 2% of the population. Climate The British Virgin Islands have a tropical savanna climate, moderated by the trade winds. Temperatures vary little throughout the year. In the capital, Road Town, typical daily maxima are around in the summer and in the winter. Typical daily minima are around in the summer and in the winter. Rainfall averages about per year, higher in the hills and lower on the coast. Rainfall can be quite variable, but the wettest months on average are September to November and the driest months on average are February and March. Hurricanes occasionally hit the islands, with the hurricane season running from June to November. See also List of Caribbean islands#British Virgin Islands References
This is a demography of the population of the British Virgin Islands including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and various other aspects. Population A July 2009 estimate placed the population of the British Virgin Islands at 24,491. In 2003, 21.9% of the population was under 15 (male 2,401; female 2,358), 73.1% between 15 and 64 (male 8,181; female 7,709), and 5% over 64 (male 578; female 503). 40% of the total population lived in urban areas, with an estimated 1.7% annual rate of urbanization. In 2014, the average woman produced 1.25 children. The estimated population of is (). Vital statistics Structure of the population Health In 2009, the infant mortality rate in the British Virgin Islands was 14.65/1000 births (16.61/1000 for females and 12.58/1000 for males). Life expectancy at birth was 77.26 years: 76.03 years for males and 78.55 years for females. Education The official language of the British Virgin Islands is English. In 1991, 97.8% of people aged 15 and over could read and write. Education expenditures represented 3.7% of total GDP in 2006. Ethnicity Religion References Society of the British Virgin Islands
Country Code: +1284 International Call Prefix: 011 (outside NANP) Calls from the British Virgin Islands to the US, Canada, and other NANP Caribbean nations, are dialled as 1 + NANP area code + 7-digit number. Calls from the British Virgin Islands to non-NANP countries are dialled as 011 + country code + phone number with local area code. Number Format: nxx-xxxx Telephones – main lines in use: 11,700 (2002) Telephones – mobile cellular: 8,000 (2002) Telephone system: worldwide telephone service general assessment: worldwide telephone service domestic: NA international: Connected via submarine cable to Bermuda; the East Caribbean Fibre System (ECFS) submarine cable provides connectivity to 13 other islands in the eastern Caribbean (2007) Radio stations: AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 0 (2004) ZBVI 780 Tortola ZJKC-FM 90.9 Tortola (repeats WJKC 95.1 Christiansted, USVI) ZGLD-FM 91.7 Tortola ZCCR-FM 94.1 Todman's Peak ZWVE-FM 97.3 Tortola ZKNG-FM 100.9 Chalwell ZROD-FM 103.7 Tortola ZVCR-FM 106.9 Chalwell Television stations: 1 (ZBTV), (plus one cable company) (1997) Internet service providers (ISPs): 1 (1999) Internet country code: VG Internet hosts: 465 (2008) Internet users: 4,000 (2002) See also : British Virgin Islands Deregulation of the telephone market In 2006, the British Virgin Islands government undertook a deregulation of the telephone industry. Prior to 2006, in common with many other Caribbean countries, Cable & Wireless (Caribbean) had a statutory monopoly on telephone and other electronic communications services. However, in the 1990s, a local company called CCT Boatphone, which had previously provided radio boatphones to tourists on charter boats, expanded into cellular (mobile) telecommunications for land-based users. Although technically in breach of the statutory monopoly, CCT Boatphone was backed by a powerful collection of local interests known as the BVI Investment Club. Negotiations between Cable & Wireless and CCT Boatphone led to a split of the monopolies, with Cable & Wireless retaining a monopoly over fixed line and internet services, and CCT Boatphone keeping a de facto monopoly over cellular telephones. In 2007 the government abolished the previously existing monopolies under an order made pursuant to the new legislation. The process proved politically fraught, and the government's Minister for Communications and Works, Alvin Christopher, ended up leaving the government and joining the opposition party as a result of the furore. The process was also criticised as cumbersome and slow, the initial deregulation having been announced in 2004, and taking no less than three years to come to fruition through delays in legislation and regulation. Although there have been no new entrants into the fixed line industry, the government issued three licences under the new regime to cellular telephone service providers. The existing provider, CCT Boatphone, obtained one licence. Bmobile, the cellular arm of Cable & Wireless, obtained a second. The third licence was obtained by BVI Cable TV, a local cable television service. The licence in favour of BVI Cable was controversial, as the Regulator had announced in advance that only three licences in total would be issued, and BVI Cable TV had crumbling cable television infrastructure, and was in no position to offer cellular telephone services (and to date, has not offered any cellular telephone services, or anything other than simple cable television). However, bmobile's main regional competitor, Digicel, was rejected for a licence. The decision was regarded as highly controversial in the local media. Digicel then issued court proceedings against the Regulator, arguing that he had acted improperly by imposing an arbitrary limit of three licences (although no complaint was made about the decision to prefer BVI Cable TV's improbable licence over Digicel). Bmobile was joined to the suit as an interested party. High Court Judge Rita Joseph-Olivetti found in favour of Digicel and quashed the original decision. Digicel commenced separate proceedings against Cable and Wireless (as bmobile's parent company) in the English courts, claiming that Cable & Wireless has unfairly stifled competition in several Caribbean jurisdictions. During the intervening period, bmobile has obtained a virtual stranglehold on the cellular telecommunications market in the British Virgin Islands by a combination of low prices and aggressive advertising, as well as significant investment in infrastructure and technology. Digicel was finally granted a licence on 17 December 2007 and started operations in the BVI on 28 November 2008. References External links Ministry of Communications and Works of the British Virgin Islands British Virgin Islands, SubmarineCableMap.com British Virgin
The systems of transport in the British Virgin Islands include 113 kilometres of highway and a harbour at Road Town. Roads total: 200 km paved: 200 km unpaved: 0 km (2007) Despite using left-hand traffic, most vehicles are left-hand-drive, being imported from the United States. Ports and terminals Road Town Airports 4 (2008) Paved runways total: 2 914 to 1,523 m: 1 under 914 m: 1 (2008) Unpaved runways total: 2 914 to 1,523 m: 2 (2008) Merchant Marine registered in other countries: 1 (Panama) (2008) References
Brunei is a country in Southeast Asia, bordering the South China Sea and East Malaysia. Its geographical coordinates are . The country is small with a total size of . It is larger in size than Trinidad and Tobago. It is close to vital sea lanes through the South China Sea linking the Indian and Pacific Oceans. The country has two parts physically separated by Malaysia, making it almost an enclave within Malaysia. Brunei shares a border with Malaysia, and has a coastline. The terrain is a flat coastal plain that rises to mountainous in the east and hilly lowlands in the west. While earthquakes are quite rare, Brunei is located along the not Pacific Ring of Fire. Climate A tropical climate with high humidity prevails in Brunei. Typically, the entire nation experiences the same climate. The entire year is hot in the country. The monsoon winds and other wind systems in the area brought on by the distribution of air pressure in Southeast Asia, as well as the location on Borneo's northwest coast, which lies in the equatorial tropics, all have an impact on the climate. ITCZ (Intertropical Convergence Zone) is the name given to the low pressure trough that occurs around the equator. Areas in the subtropics on both hemispheres, however, experience high pressure, resulting in a pressure difference. This is due to air masses from the southern and northern hemispheres meet in this region, causing major climate shifts, the Intertropical Convergence Zone is crucial. It's vital that the ITCZ's position typically oscillates based on the sun's zenithal position and is not always fixed. The magnitude of the latitudinal oscillation is reduced to roughly half that of the sun because of the movement's two-month delay. There are two distinct seasons in the nation that are separated by two transitional phases as a result of the ITCZ's shifting location throughout the year and the associated trade winds. The South China Sea and Borneo are substantially impacted by northeast monsoon winds that recurve via the Inter-Tropical Convergence zone to become northwesterly winds that blow across Indonesia between December and March. The ITCZ's typical location is between latitudes 50S and 100S when it migrated south across Brunei and Borneo in late December, a time period known as the Northeast Monsoon. The Inter-Tropical Convergence Zone, which is positioned east of the Philippines around latitude 150N between June and September, transforms into a monsoon trough to the west. The Southwest Monsoon is created by southeast trade winds that originate in the southern hemisphere and recurve on the equator. The northeast monsoon dominates from December to March whereas the southwest monsoon blows from May to September. Transitional months are recognized as April, October, and November. The municipality of Bandar Seri Begawan's climate is tropical equatorial with two seasons. Dry season is extremely hot (). Wet or rainy season is generally warm and wet (). Most of the country is a flat coastal plain with mountains in the east and hilly lowland in the west. The lowest point is at sea level and the highest is Bukit Pagon (). The climatic regions of the country is as follows: Brunei-Muara District and Bandar Seri Begawan are humid tropical on the coast and lower elevation north and Humid subtropical in central Brunei-Muara District. () Tutong District is tropical, hot in the north and warm in the south. () Belait District is tropical, hot in the north and slightly warm in the south. () Temburong District is humid subtropical in the higher elevation south and humid tropical on the coast and lower elevation north. () Natural disasters Since the nation lies outside of the typhoon belt and mostly untouched by earthquakes, it is less likely to experience major disasters, making it a relatively safe area to live and work. Foreigners from temperate climes who want to avoid harsh winters are drawn to the country by its milder temperature. Additionally, the weather is suitable for outdoor activities and water sports. Statistics As of 2009, the statistics of Brunei is as follows:Area: Total: Land: Water: Maritime claims: territorial sea: exclusive economic zone: and or to median line Elevation extremes: lowest point: South China Sea 0 m highest point: Bukit Pagon 1,850 m Natural resources: petroleum, natural gas, timber Land use: arable land: 0.76% permanent crops: 1.14% other: 98.10% (2012) Irrigated land: (2003) Total renewable water resources: Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural) total: 0.09 km3/yr (97%/0%/3%) per capital: 301.6 m3/yr (2009) Environment – current issues: seasonal smoke/haze resulting from forest fires in Indonesia Environment – international agreements: party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution References
Telecommunications Telephone Telephone service throughout the country is excellent; international service is good to Southeast Asia, Middle East, Western Europe, and the US Main lines in use: 82,588 (2020) Mobile phones: 565,949 (2020) Landing points for the SEA-ME-WE-3, SJC, AAG, Lubuan-Brunei Submarine Cable via optical telecommunications submarine cables that provides links to Asia, the Middle East, Southeast Asia, Africa, Australia, and the US; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Indian Ocean and 1 Pacific Ocean) (2019) IDD Country Code: +673 Mobile Telephone Brunei has 3 major telco namely DST, Imagine (TelBru) and Progresif which offers prepaid and postpaid plan. UNN is the Single Wholesale Network with holds all the telecommunication infrastructures in Brunei. Internet Internet service providers: 3 (2020), Telbru, Progresif Cellular and DSTCom Country code: .bn Internet fixed subscriptions: 49,452 (2020) Internet users: 410,800 (2019) Broadband Brunei's Internet service was monopolized by Telekom Brunei. ADSL speeds were ranging from 512 kbit/s to the maximum speed of 1 Mbit/s through ADSL2+ broadband. 1 Mbit/s was introduced in 2006 and was priced at BND$128 per month (Equivalent to Singapore currency). It was well known that the Brunei's broadband ranging from 512 kbit/s to 1 Mbit/s is one of the most expensive in the world. The limited market in Brunei means that new developments in the telecommunications sector is stagnant. In 2002, Telekom Brunei was incorporated become Telekom Brunei Berhad (TelBru). In 2008, the internet were improved with dramatically with speeds ranging from 1Mbit/s to maximum speed of 5Mbit/s. Price starting from B$65 to B$105 per month respectively. In 2012, Telekom Brunei started deploying its FTTH network capable of 100Mbit/s through a contract awarded to Huawei. They aimed to provide FTTH coverage to around 85% of the population by 2017. In 2016 Telbru drastically reduced the price and increased the speeds of its broadband plans. Due to the fact that a significant number of people were now connected via FTTH and not via the old copper cables. On 1 March 2018 Telbru rolled out their new 'high speed' broadband plans They also split the plans which have unlimited quota into 'unlimited plans' In 2017 Forbes reported that Brunei had the 4th most expensive broadband service in the world On 4 September 2019, The UNN took over all of the telecommunications infrastructure in Brunei. By doing so they aimed to provide equal infrastructure to all the isps in the country. This brought an end to a long held monopoly by Imagine Sdn Bhd (Formerly Known as Telbru) over the home broadband market with the introduction of Datastream Digital's 'Infinity' home broadband plans on 24 January 2020. Television Terrestrial TV Stations (Free to air) In some areas residents may enjoy some of the Malaysian TV channels RTB Perdana (Formerly known as RTB 1 and RTB 5) - An 17-hour national flagship channel of Radio Television Brunei aired news and information programs, with local and sinetron Indonesia series in 1080p HDTV. RTB Aneka (Formerly known as RTB 2 and RTB 3 HD) - A 13-hour second channel of Radio Television Brunei airs entertainment programmes in 1080p HDTV. RTB Sukmaindera (Formerly known as RTB 4) - A 24-hour international satellite television channel airing all of RTB programs both locally and internationally in 1080p HDTV. Pay TV (Satellite TV) 1 - Kristal Astro Radio All radio stations in the country use FM. 5 radio stations are broadcast by the state controlled Radio Television Brunei. The British Forces Broadcast Service (BFBS) broadcasts 2 other stations in the country. Reception from some Malaysia stations can be received. References Brunei Brunei
Brunei joined ASEAN on 7 January 1984, one week after resuming full independence, and gives its ASEAN membership the highest priority in its foreign relations. Brunei joined the United Nations in September 1984. It is also a member of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum and the Commonwealth of Nations. Brunei hosted the APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting in November 2000. In 2005 it attended the inaugural East Asia Summit. Brunei has a number of diplomatic missions abroad and has close relations with Singapore, sharing an interchangeable currency regime as well as close military relations with the latter island-state. Aside from relations with other ASEAN states, of which the Philippines, Indonesia, and Malaysia are key partners, Brunei also has extensive relations with the Muslim world and the Arab world outside its own region. International organizations Brunei became a member state of the Commonwealth in 1984, ASEAN and the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation in 1984, the 159th United Nations member on 21 September 1985, a major player in BIMP-EAGA in 1994, and a founding member of the World Trade Organization (WTO) in 1995. Since 2009, Brunei and the Philippines signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) that seeks to strengthen the bilateral co-operation of the two countries in the fields of agriculture and farm-related trade and investments. Diplomatic relations List of countries which Brunei Darussalam maintains diplomatic relations with: Bilateral relations See also List of diplomatic missions in Brunei List of diplomatic missions of Brunei Visa requirements for Bruneian citizens References Brunei and the Commonwealth of Nations
Telecommunications in Bulgaria include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet. Radio and television Radio broadcast stations: AM 31, FM 63, shortwave 2 (2001). Radio broadcast hours: 525,511 (2003). Television broadcast stations: 39 (2001). Television broadcast hours: 498,091 (2003). Telephones Main lines in use: 1.6 million (2015 est). Mobile cellular: 8.98 million lines (2016). Telephone system: General assessment: an extensive but antiquated telecommunications network inherited from the Soviet era; quality has improved; the Bulgaria Telecommunications Company's fixed-line monopoly terminated in 2005 when alternative fixed-line operators were given access to its network; a drop in fixed-line connections in recent years has been more than offset by a sharp increase in mobile-cellular telephone use fostered by multiple service providers; the number of cellular telephone subscriptions now exceeds the population Domestic: a fairly modern digital cable trunk line now connects switching centers in most of the regions; the others are connected by digital microwave radio relay International: country code – 359; submarine cable provides connectivity to Ukraine and Russia; a combination submarine cable and land fiber-optic system provides connectivity to Italy, Albania, and North Macedonia; satellite earth stations – 3 (1 Intersputnik in the Atlantic Ocean region, 2 Intelsat in the Atlantic and Indian Ocean regions) (2007). Internet Top-level domains: .bg and .бг (proposed, Cyrillic). Internet users: 4.1 million users (2016) 3.9 million users, 72nd in the world; 55.1% of the population, 74th in the world (2012); 3.4 million users, 63rd in the world (2009); 1.9 million users (2007). Fixed broadband: 1.2 million subscriptions, 52nd in the world; 17.6% of population, 53rd in the world (2012). Wireless broadband: 2.8 million, 55th in the world; 40.3% of the population, 41st in the world (2012). Internet hosts: 976,277 hosts, 47th in the world (2012); 513,470 (2008). IPv4: 4.2 million addresses allocated, 0.1% of the world total, 589.7 addresses per 1000 people, 51st in the world (2012). See also Internet Society – Bulgaria List of internet service providers in Bulgaria Bulgaria References
Burkina Faso (formerly Upper Volta) is a landlocked Sahel country that shares borders with six nations. It lies between the Sahara desert and the Gulf of Guinea, south of the loop of the Niger River, mostly between latitudes 9° and 15°N (a small area is north of 15°), and longitudes 6°W and 3°E. The land is green in the south, with forests and fruit trees, and semi-arid in the north. Most of central Burkina Faso lies on a savanna plateau, above sea level, with fields, brush, and scattered trees. Burkina Faso's game preserves – the most important of which are Arly, Nazinga, and W National Park—contain lions, elephants, hippopotamus, monkeys, common warthogs, and antelopes. Previously the endangered painted hunting dog, Lycaon pictus occurred in Burkina Faso, but, although the last sightings were made in Arli National Park, the species is considered extirpated from Burkina Faso. Area Burkina Faso has a total area of , of which is land and water. Comparatively, it is slightly larger than New Zealand and Colorado. Its borders total : Benin , Ivory Coast , Ghana , Mali , Niger , and Togo . It has no coastline or maritime claims. Extreme points This is a list of the extreme points of Burkina Faso, the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location. Northernmost point – unnamed location on the border with Mali, Sahel Region Easternmost point – unnamed location on the border with Benin immediately south of the Burkina Faso-Benin-Niger tripoint, Est Region Southernmost point – unnamed location on the border with Ivory Coast immediately south of the village of Kpuere, Sud-Ouest Region Westernmost point – the tripoint with Mali and Ivory Coast, Cascades Region Terrain It is made up of two major types of countryside. The larger part of the country is covered by a peneplain, which forms a gently undulating landscape with, in some areas, a few isolated hills, the last vestiges of a Precambrian massif. The southwest of the country, on the other hand, forms a sandstone massif, where the highest peak, Ténakourou, is found at an elevation of . The massif is bordered by sheer cliffs up to high. The average altitude of Burkina Faso is and the difference between the highest and lowest terrain is no greater than . Burkina Faso is therefore a relatively flat country. Its elevation extremes are a lowest point at the Mouhoun (Black Volta) River () and highest point at Tena Kourou (). Administrative divisions The country is divided into 13 administrative regions. These regions encompass 45 provinces and 351 departments. Hydrography The country owes its former name of Upper Volta to three rivers which cross it: the Black Volta (or Mouhoun), the White Volta (Nakambé) and the Red Volta (Nazinon). The Black Volta is one of the country's only two rivers which flow year-round, the other being the Komoé, which flows to the southwest. The basin of the Niger River also drains 27% of the country's surface. The Niger's tributaries – the Béli, the Gorouol, the Goudébo and the Dargol – are seasonal streams and flow for only four to six months a year. They still, however, can cause large floods. The country also contains numerous lakes – the principal ones are Tingrela, Bam and Dem. The country contains large ponds, as well, such as Oursi, Béli, Yomboli and Markoye. Water shortages are often a problem, especially in the north of the country. Climate Burkina Faso has a primarily tropical climate with two very distinct seasons. In the rainy season, the country receives between 600 and 900 millimetres (23.6 and 35.4 in) of rainfall; in the dry season, the harmattan – a hot dry wind from the Sahara – blows. The rainy season lasts approximately four months, May/June to September, and is shorter in the north of the country. Three climatic zones can be defined: the Sahel, the Sudan-Sahel, and the Sudan-Guinea. The Sahel in the north typically receives less than of rainfall per year and has high temperatures, . A relatively dry tropical savanna, the Sahel extends beyond the borders of Burkina Faso, from the Horn of Africa to the Atlantic Ocean, and borders the Sahara to its north and the fertile region of the Sudan to the South. Situated between 11°3' and 13°5' north latitude, the Sudan-Sahel region is a transitional zone with regards to rainfall and temperature. Further to the south, the Sudan-Guinea zone receives more than of rain each year and has cooler average temperatures. Resources and environment Burkina Faso's natural resources include manganese, limestone, marble, phosphates, pumice, salt and small deposits of gold. 21.93% of its land is arable, and 0.26% has permanent crops as of 2012. As of 2003, 250 km2 were irrigated. Its total renewable water resources as of 2011 were 12.5 m3, with a total freshwater withdrawal of 0.72 km3/yr (46% domestic, 3% industrial, 51% agricultural; this amounts to a per-capita withdrawal of 54.99 m3/yr. Burkina Faso's fauna and flora are protected in two national parks and several reserves: see List of national parks in Africa, Nature reserves of Burkina Faso. Recurring droughts and floods are a significant natural hazard. Current environmental issues include: recent droughts and desertification severely affecting agricultural activities, population distribution, and the economy; overgrazing; soil degradation; deforestation. Burkina Faso is party to the following international environmental agreements: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands. It has signed, but not ratified, the Law of the Sea and the Nuclear Test Ban. See also 2010 Sahel famine :Category:Treaties of Burkina Faso Notes Line note references External links Soil Maps of Burkina Faso European Digital Archive on the Soil Maps of the world
The economy of Burkina Faso is based primarily on subsistence farming and livestock raising. Burkina Faso has an average income purchasing-power-parity per capita of $1,900 and nominal per capita of $790 in 2014. More than 80% of the population relies on subsistence agriculture, with only a small fraction directly involved in industry and services. Highly variable rainfall, poor soils, lack of adequate communications and other infrastructure, a low literacy rate, and a stagnant economy are all longstanding problems of this landlocked country. The export economy also remained subject to fluctuations in world prices. The country has a high population density, few natural resources, and a fragile soil. Industry remains dominated by unprofitable government-controlled corporations. Following the African franc currency devaluation in January 1994 the government updated its development program in conjunction with international agencies, and exports and economic growth have increased. Maintenance of its macroeconomic progress depends on continued low inflation, reduction in the trade deficit, and reforms designed to encourage private investment. The Burkinabé financial system represents 30% of the country's GDP and is dominated by the banking sector, which accounts for 90% of total financial system assets. Eleven banks and five non-bank financial institutions operate in the country. The banking sector is highly concentrated, with the three largest banks holding nearly 60% of total financial sector assets. Banks are generally adequately capitalized, but remain vulnerable due to their overexposure to the cotton sector, the prices of which are subject to significant oscillations. A December 2018 report from the World Bank indicates that cotton had become the most important cash crop, while gold exports were increasing in recent years. In 2017, economic growth increased to 6.4% in 2017 (vs. 5.9% in 2016) primarily due to gold production and increased investment in infrastructure. The increase in consumption linked to growth of the wage bill also supported economic growth. Inflation remained low, 0.4% that year but the public deficit grew to 7.7% of GDP (vs. 3.5% in 2016). The government was continuing to get financial aid and loans to finance the debt. To finance the public deficit, the Government combined concessional aid and borrowing on the regional market. The World Bank said that the economic outlook remained favorable in the short and medium term, although that could be negatively impacted. Risks included high oil prices (imports), lower prices of gold and cotton (exports) as well as terrorist threat and labour strikes. Macro-economic trend This is a chart of trend of gross domestic product of Burkina Faso at market prices estimated by the International Monetary Fund with figures in millions of CFA Francs. For purchasing power parity comparisons, the US Dollar is exchanged at 470.70 CFA Francs only. Mean wages were $0.56 per man-hour in 2009. Current GDP per capita of Burkina Faso grew 13% in the Sixties reaching a peak growth of 237% in the Seventies. But this proved unsustainable and growth consequently scaled back to 23% in the Eighties. Finally, it shrank by 37% in the Nineties. Average wages in 2007 hover around 2 to 3 dollars per day. Although disadvantaged by an extremely resource-deprived domestic economy, Burkina Faso remains committed to the structural adjustment program it launched in 1991. It has largely recovered from the devaluation of the CFA in January 1994, with a 1996 growth rate of 5.9%. Many Burkinabé migrate to neighbouring countries for work, and their remittances provide a substantial contribution to the balance of payments. Burkina Faso is attempting to improve the economy by developing its mineral resources, improving its infrastructure, making its agricultural and livestock sectors more productive and competitive, and stabilizing the supplies and prices of cereals. The agricultural economy remains highly vulnerable to fluctuations in rainfall. The Mossi Plateau in north central Burkina Faso faces encroachment from the Sahara. The resultant southward migration means heightened competition for control of very limited water resources south of the Mossi Plateau. Most of the population ekes out a living as subsistence farmers, living with problems of climate, soil erosion, and rudimentary technology. The staple crops are pearl millet, sorghum, maize, and rice. The cash crops are cotton, groundnuts, karite (shea nuts), and sesame. Livestock, once a major export, has declined. A 2018 report by the African Development Bank Group discussed a macroeconomic evolution: "higher investment and continued spending on social services and security that will add to the budget deficit". This group's prediction for 2018 indicated that the budget deficit would be reduced to 4.8% of GDP in 2018 and to 2.9% in 2019. Public debt associated with the National Economic and Social Development Plan was estimated at 36.9% of GDP in 2017. Agriculture Burkina Faso produced in 2018: 1.9 million tons of sorghum; 1.7 million tons of maize; 1.1 million tons of millet; 630 thousand tons of cowpea (3rd largest producer in the world, preceded only by Niger and Nigeria); 490 thousand tons of sugar cane; 482 thousand tons of cotton; 329 thousand tons of peanut; 253 thousand tons of sesame seed (8th largest producer in the world); 240 thousand tons of vegetable; 160 thousand tons of rice; 103 thousand tons of cashew nuts (12th largest producer in the world); In addition to smaller productions of other agricultural products. External trade Industry, still in an embryonic stage, is located primarily in Bobo-Dioulasso, Ouagadougou, Banfora, and Koudougou. Manufacturing is limited to food processing, textiles, and other import substitution heavily protected by tariffs. Some factories are privately owned, and others are set to be privatized. Burkina Faso's exploitable natural resources are limited, although a manganese ore deposit is located in the remote northeast. Gold mining has increased greatly since the mid-1980s and, along with cotton, is a leading export moneyearner. However, both gold and cotton are listed as goods produced mostly by child labor and forced labor according to a recent U.S. Department of Labor report. Child labour See also Agriculture in Burkina Faso List of companies based in Burkina Faso United Nations Economic Commission for Africa List of banks in Burkina Faso References External links West African Agricultural Market Observer/Observatoire du Marché Agricole (RESIMAO), a project of the West-African Market Information Network (WAMIS-NET), provides live market and commodity prices from fifty seven regional and local public agricultural markets across Benin, Burkina Faso, Côte d'Ivoire, Guinea, Niger, Mali, Senegal, Togo, and Nigeria. Sixty commodities are tracked weekly. The project is run by the Benin Ministry of Agriculture, and a number of European, African, and United Nations agencies. Burkina Faso latest trade data on ITC Trade Map Burkina Faso Burkina Faso
Transport in Burkina Faso consists primarily of road, air and rail transportation. The World Bank classified country's transportation as underdeveloped but noted that Burkina Faso is a natural geographic transportation hub for West Africa. Highways In 2002, there were a total of of highway in Burkina Faso, of which are paved. In 2000, the Government of Burkina Faso classified 15,000 kilometers of road as part of the national road network managed under the Ministry of Infrastructures Transport and Housing (MITH) through the Directorate of Roads (DGR). This network includes main inter-city roads and access roads for départments' capital cities. Only ten of the network's main roads are even partially paved, and the paved roads are plagued by dangerous potholes, missing signage, missing barriers and guardrails near roadside hazards, and no pavement markings to separate traffic moving in opposite directions As of May 2011 the country's road infrastructure was rated by the World Bank to be in relatively good condition and noted that country was regional hub with paved roads linking the country to Mali, Ivory Coast, Ghana, Togo, and Niger. Nevertheless, "trucking cartels and red tape contribute to high transportation costs and diminished international competitiveness." 58% of firms in Burkina Faso identified roads as major business constraint, maintenance and rehabilitation needs of the main road network are said to be underfunded. Air transport There are international airports at Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso and numerous smaller airfields. In 2004, the number of airports totaled 23, only 2 of which had paved runways as of 2005. Air Burkina, which began in 1967, is government-run and has a monopoly on domestic service but also flies to neighboring countries. Ouagadougou airport handles about 98% percent of all scheduled commercial air traffic in Burkina Faso. Air Burkina and Air France handle about 60% of all scheduled passenger traffic. Between 2005 and 2011, air passenger traffic at Ouagadougou airport grew at an average annual rate of 7.0 percent per annum reaching about 404,726 passengers in 2011 and was estimated to reach 850,000 by 2025. In 2007 Ouagadougou airport was the fifteenth busiest airport in West Africa in passenger volume, just ahead of Port Harcourt (Nigeria) and behind Banjul (Gambia). The total air cargo at Ouagadougou airport grew 71% from 4,350 tons in 2005 to about 7,448 tons in 2009. The government plans to close the Ouagadougou airport upon construction of the new Ouagadougou-Donsin Airport, approximately 35 km northeast of Ouagadougou. The new airport is expected to be completed around 2018 and the government received an $85 million loan from the World Bank to help finance the construction. The government of Burkino Faso believed that the project would cost $618 million. Railways There are 622 kilometres of railway in Burkina Faso, of which 517 km run from Ouagadougou to Abidjan, Ivory Coast; and 105 km from Ouagadougou to Kaya. As of June 2014 Sitarail operates a passenger train three times a week along the route from Ouagadougou to Abidjan via Banfora, Bobo-Dioulasso and Koudougou. All of the railways in the country are of . Only Ivory Coast is connected to Burkina Faso by rail. Instability in Ivory Coast in 2003 forced a rerouting of rail freight from the Abidjan corridor to ports in Togo, Benin, and Ghana via the road network. A proposed rail link between Ouagadougou and Pô in Burkina Faso and Kumasi and Boankra in Ghana, has been discussed with Ghanaian officials, and feasibility studies are being undertaken to explore this possibility, which would provide rail access to the inland port of Bonakra. Burkina Faso and Ghana use different rail gauges and this break-of-gauge can be overcome to a greater or lesser extent with a number of methods. In 2006, an Indian proposal surfaced to link the railways in Benin and Togo with landlocked Niger and Burkina Faso. Additionally, a Czech proposal also surfaced to link Ghana railways with Burkina Faso. The manganese deposits near Dori are one source of traffic. Burkina Faso would also be a participant in the AfricaRail project. In May, 2011 the World Bank reported that Sitarail had recovered well from the political crisis in Ivory Coast but was experiencing financial distress, needed to re-balance its financial structure and find alternative funding for rehabilitation backlog. Stations served The following towns of Burkina Faso are served by the country's railways: Banfora Bobo-Dioulasso Koudougou Ouagadougou - national capital Kaya - terminus See also West Africa Regional Rail Integration References External links UN Map of Burkina Faso
Burkina Faso has good relations with the European Union, African and certain Asian countries. France, the former colonial power, in particular, continues to provide significant aid and supports Compaoré's developing role as a regional powerbroker. According to the U.S. State Department, "U.S. relations with Burkina Faso are good but subject to strains in the past because of the Compaoré government's past involvement in arms trading and other sanctions-breaking activity." Burkina Faso cut diplomatic ties with Taiwan in May 2018 (being the most populous state to do so in the 21st century) and the foreign ministry of China stated it approved of its decision. Burkina Faso's relations with its West African neighbors have improved in recent years. Relations with Ghana, in particular, have warmed. President Compaoré had mediated a political crisis in Togo and helped to resolve the Tuareg conflict in Niger. Burkina maintains cordial relations with Libya, but recalled its in ambassador in 2017 over issues of treatment of migrants trying to reach Europe, and the reemergence of the slave trade there. A territorial dispute with Mali was mediated by Ghana and Nigeria, which has led to lessening of tensions between the two nations. Nineteen provinces of Burkina Faso are joined with contiguous areas of Mali and Niger under the Liptako-Gourma Authority, a regional economic organization. Burkina Faso is also a member of the International Criminal Court with a bilateral immunity agreement of protection for the United States-military (as covered under Article 98). Bilateral relations See also List of diplomatic missions in Burkina Faso List of diplomatic missions of Burkina Faso List of current ambassadors of Burkina Faso References Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Burkina Faso
Burundi is located in East Africa, to the east of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, at the coordinates . Physical geography Burundi occupies an area equal to in size, of which is land. The country has of land border: of which is shared with the Democratic Republic of the Congo, with Rwanda and with Tanzania. As a landlocked country, Burundi possesses no coastline. It straddles the crest of the Congo-Nile Divide which separates the basins of the Congo and Nile rivers. The farthest headwaters of the Nile, the Ruvyironza River, has its source in Burundi. Terrain The terrain of Burundi is hilly and mountainous, dropping to a plateau in the east. The southern and eastern plains have been categorised by the World Wide Fund for Nature as part of the Central Zambezian miombo woodlands ecoregion. The lowest point in the country is at Lake Tanganyika, at , with the highest point being on Mount Heha, at . Natural hazards are posed in Burundi by flooding and landslides. Natural resources Burundi possesses reserves of: nickel, uranium, rare earth oxides, peat, cobalt, copper, platinum (not yet exploited), vanadium, niobium, tantalum, gold, tin, tungsten, kaolin, and limestone. There is also arable land and the potential for hydropower. Burundi has of land that is irrigated. The table below describes land use in Burundi. Climate The climate of Burundi is equatorial in nature and is marked by high mean annual temperatures, small temperature ranges, and rainfall throughout the year. The temperature and amount of rainfall varies dependent upon altitude. Burundi experiences its dry season between May and August, and its rainy season between February and May. Due to climate change, Burundi is becoming more susceptible to both excess and deficit rainfall, leading alternately to floods and droughts. Environment Current issues Soil erosion is an issue for Burundi, and is as a result of overgrazing and the expansion of agriculture into marginal lands. Other issues include: deforestation, due to the uncontrolled cutting-down of trees for fuel; and habitat loss threatens wildlife populations. International agreements Burundi is a party to the following international agreements that relate to the environment: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes and Ozone Layer Protection. The following have been signed but not yet ratified by Burundi: Law of the Sea and Nuclear Test Ban. Extreme points This is a list of the extreme points of Burundi, the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location. Northernmost point – Muyinga Province; unnamed location on the border with Rwanda immediately south of the Rwandan town of Mbuye Easternmost point – Cankuzo Province; unnamed location on the border with Tanzania immediately northwest of Mburi hill Southernmost point – Makamba Province; unnamed location on the border with Tanzania immediately north of the Tanzanian town of Mwenene, Westernmost point – Cibitoke Province; unnamed location on the border the Democratic Republic of the Congo immediately east of the Congolese town of Kamanyola References
Demographic features of the population of Burundi include population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects. At 206.1 persons per km², Burundi has the second-largest population density in Sub-Saharan Africa. Most people live on farms near areas of fertile volcanic soil. The population is made up of three major ethnic groups – Hutu (Bahutu), Tutsi (Batutsi or Watusi), and Twa (Batwa). Kirundi is the common language. Intermarriage takes place frequently between the Hutus and Tutsis. The terms "pastoralist" and "agriculturist", often used as ethnic designations for Watusi and Bahutu, respectively, are only occupational titles which vary among individuals and groups. Although Hutus encompass the majority of the population, historically Tutsis have been politically and economically dominant. Population According to , the total population was 11,891,000 in 2020, compared to only 2 309 000 in 1950. The proportion of children below the age of 15 in 2020 was 45.3%, 52.4% were between 15 and 65 years of age, while 2.4% of the population was 65 years or older. . Population Estimates by Sex and Age Group (01.VII.2015) (Unrevised data.): Population Estimates by Sex and Age Group (01.VII.2020): UN population projections Numbers are in thousands. UN medium variant projections 2020 11,891 2025 13,764 2030 15,773 2035 17,932 2040 20,253 2045 22,728 2050 25,325 Vital statistics Registration of vital events is in Burundi not complete. The Population Departement of the United Nations prepared the following estimates. Source: UN DESA, World Population Prospects, 2022 Fertility and births Total Fertility Rate (TFR) (Wanted Fertility Rate) and Crude Birth Rate (CBR): Fertility data as of 2010 (DHS Program): The fertility rate in the Bujumbura Mairie Province fell to 3.7 by 2016-2017; the other regions were not aggregated in the report, for easy reference and comparison to the below chart. Per the 2016-2017 report, the average number of desired children in Burundi, nationwide, by both men and women of 15 to 49 years of age who are either paired up or married, is 4 children or less, and slightly less for men than for women. Per the report, this suggests an excess fecundity (more children than desired) of 1.8 children per couple nationwide; 1.1 in urban areas (where 3.0 children are desired, and the fertility rate is 4.1) and 2.0 in rural areas (where 3.7 children are desired and the fertility rate is 5.7). However, the number of desired children appears to be based on the lowest-desired rate - that of paired but unmarried men (3.7 children) rather than the highest (4.0, desired by married women) or even an overall average. Other demographic statistics Demographic statistics according to the World Population Review in 2019. One birth every 1 minutes One death every 6 minutes One net migrant every 288 minutes Net gain of one person every 1 minutes The following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated. Population 12,696,478 (2022 est.) 12,241,065 (July 2021 est.) 10,742,276 (July 2015 est.) Note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July 2015 est.) Religions Roman Catholic 58.6%, Protestant 35.3% (includes Adventist 2.7% and other Protestant 32.6%), Muslim 3.4%, other 1.3%, none 1.3% (2016-17 est.) Age structure 0-14 years: 43.83% (male 2,618,868/female 2,581,597) 15-24 years: 19.76% (male 1,172,858/female 1,171,966) 25-54 years: 29.18% (male 1,713,985/female 1,748,167) 55-64 years: 4.17% (male 231,088/female 264,131) 65 years and over: 3.06% (male 155,262/female 207,899) (2020 est.) Median age Total: 17.7 years. Country comparison to the world: 217th Male: 17.4 years Female: 18.0 years (2020 est.) Total: 17.0 years Male: 16.8 years Female: 17.2 years (2015 est.) Population growth rate 3.63% (2022 est.) Country comparison to the world: 4th 3.68% (2021 est.) 3.28% (2015 est.) Total fertility rate 5.03 children born/woman (2022 est.) Country comparison to the world: 10th 5.1 children born/woman (2021 est.) Birth rate 35.17 births/1,000 population (2022 est.) Country comparison to the world: 16th 35.48 births/1,000 population (2021 est.) Country comparison to the world: 16th Death rate 5.96 deaths/1,000 population (2022 est.) Country comparison to the world: 161st 6.07 deaths/1,000 population (2021 est.) Net migration rate 7.09 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2022 est.) Country comparison to the world: 12nd 7.35 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2021 est.) 4.04 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2009 est.) Population distribution One of Africa's most densely populated countries; concentrations tend to be in the north and along the northern shore of Lake Tanganyika in the west; most people live on farms near areas of fertile volcanic soil Urbanization urban population: 14.4% of total population (2022) rate of urbanization: 5.43% annual rate of change (2020-25 est.) Urban population: 13.7% of total population (2020) Rate of urbanization: 5.68% annual rate of change (2015-20 est.) Mother's mean age at first birth 21.5 years (2016/17 est.) note: median age at first birth among women 25-49 21.3 years (2010 est.) note: median age at first birth among women 25-29 Sex ratio At birth: 1.03 male(s)/female Under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female 15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female 65 years and over: 0.87 male(s)/female Total population: 0.99 male(s)/female (2020 est.) Life expectancy at birth total population: 67.42 years. Country comparison to the world: 190th male: 65.32 years female: 69.59 years (2022 est.) Total population: 67.07 years Country comparison to the world: 150th male: 64.98 years female: 69.22 years (2021 est.) Total population: 60.9 years Male: 59.2 years Female: 62.7 years (2017 est.) Dependency ratios Total dependency ratio: 91.0 Youth dependency ratio: 86.4 Elderly dependency ratio: 4.5 Potential support ratio: 22.0 (2020 est.) Contraceptive prevalence rate 28.5% (2016/17) HIV/AIDS Adult prevalence rate: 1.2% (2019 est.) Country comparison to the world (37th) People living with HIV/AIDS: 85,000 (2019 est.) Deaths: 1,800 (2019 est.) Children under the age of 5 years underweight 27.2% (2018/2019) Major infectious diseases Degree of risk: very high Food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever Vectorborne disease: malaria and dengue fever Water contact disease: schistosomiasis Animal contact disease: rabies (2020) Nationality Noun: Burundian(s) Adjective: Burundian Ethnic groups Hutu (Bantu) 85%, Tutsi 14%, Twa (Pygmy) 1% Europeans 3,000, South Asians 2,000 Religions Roman Catholic 62.1%, Protestant 23.9% (includes Adventist 2.3% and other Protestant 21.6%), Islam 2.5%, Other 3.6%, Unspecified 7.9% (2008 est.) Languages Kirundi (official) only: 29.7%, French (official) only: 0.3%, Kirundi and French: 8.4%, Kurundi, French and English: 2.4%, Swahili only: 0.2%, other language combinations: 2%, unspecified: 56.9% (2008 est.) NOTE: Data represents only languages read and written by people 10 years of age or older; spoken Kirundi is nearly universal. Literacy Definition: age 15 and over can read and write Total population: 68.4% Male: 76.3% Female: 61.2% (2017 est.) School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education) total: 11 years male: 11 years female: 11 years (2018) Education expenditure 5.1% of GDP (2018) References Attribution: Society of Burundi pt:Burundi#Demografia
The Politics of Burundi takes place in a framework of a transitional presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Burundi is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the two chambers of parliament, the Senate and the National Assembly. Political landscape after the civil war The political landscape of Burundi has been dominated in recent years by the civil war and a long peace process and move to democracy. Pierre Nkurunziza, a former rebel leader of the Hutu National Council for the Defense of Democracy – Forces for the Defense of Democracy, was elected to become president in a vote by parliament on 19 August 2005. Nkurunziza, who was the sole candidate, was the first president chosen through democratic means since the start of the civil war in 1993 and was sworn in on 26 August, replacing transitional president Domitien Ndayizeye. Incumbent president Évariste Ndayishimiye took office on 18 June 2020, ten days after the death of Nkurunziza. In November 1995, the presidents of Burundi, Rwanda, Uganda, and Zaire (currently Democratic Republic of Congo) announced a regional initiative for a negotiated peace in Burundi facilitated by former Tanzanian President Julius Nyerere. In July 1996, former Burundian President Buyoya returned to power in a bloodless coup. He declared himself president of a transitional republic, even as he suspended the National Assembly, banned opposition groups, and imposed a nationwide curfew. Widespread condemnation of the coup ensued, and regional countries imposed economic sanctions pending a return to a constitutional government. Buyoya agreed in 1996 to liberalize political parties. Nonetheless, fighting between the army and Hutu militias continued. In June 1998, Buyoya promulgated a transitional constitution and announced a partnership between the government and the opposition-led National Assembly. After facilitator Julius Nyerere's death in October 1999, the regional leaders appointed Nelson Mandela as Facilitator of the Arusha peace process. Under Mandela the peace process has revived and important progress has taken place. In April 2015 the 2015 Burundian unrest broke out after the ruling party announced President Pierre Nkurunziza would seek a third term in office. Protests in the capital lasted over a week, and while President Nkurunziza was in Tanzania for talks at resolving the situation, Major General Godefroid Niyombare declared a coup, leading to gun battles in the capital for control of key locations. Elections took place in 2020; despite concerns that these elections would be severely compromised, following the announcement that the President would not seek reelection, the opposition announced that they would be taking part in the election. Evariste Ndayishimiye, a candidate who was hand-picked as Nkurunziza's successor by the CNDD-FDD, won the election with 71.45% of the vote. Shortly after, on 9 June 2020, Nkurunziza died of a cardiac arrest, at the age of 55. As per the constitution, Pascal Nyabenda, the president of the national assembly, led the government until Ndayishimiye's inauguration on 18 June 2020. Executive branch |President |Évariste Ndayishimiye |CNDD-FDD |18 June 2020 |- |Vice-president |Prosper Bazombanza |UPRONA |23 June 2020 |- |Prime Minister |Alain-Guillaume Bunyoni |CNDD-FDD |23 June 2020 |} The president is popularly elected by a two-round system. They nominate a vice-president and a prime minister, who form together with the Council of Ministers the executive branch. Legislative branch The National Assembly (Assemblée nationale) has 118 members, elected for a five-year term by proportional representation with a 2% barrier. The Senate (Sénat) has 49 members, elected for a five-year term by electoral colleges of communal councilors. Extra seats in both chambers can be added to ensure that ethnic and gender quotas are met. Burundi has a multi-party system, with two or three strong parties and a third party that is electorally successful. Parties are usually based on ethnic background. Political parties and elections Administrative divisions Burundi has 18 provinces: Bubanza, Bujumbura Mairie, Bujumbura Rural, Bururi, Cankuzo, Cibitoke, Gitega, Karuzi, Kayanza, Kirundo, Makamba, Muramvya, Muyinga, Mwaro, Ngozi, Rutana, Rumonge and Ruyigi. International relations Burundi is member of the AfDB, CEEAC, CEPGL, ECA, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM, OAU, OPCW, PMAESA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, and WTrO. References External links Global Integrity Report: Burundi reports on Burundi's anti-corruption efforts.
The economy of Burundi is $3.436 billion by gross domestic product as of 2018, being heavily dependent on agriculture, which accounts for 32.9% of gross domestic product as of 2008. Burundi itself is a landlocked country lacking resources, and with almost nonexistent industrialization. Agriculture supports more than 70% of the labor force, the majority of whom are subsistence farmers. Although Burundi is potentially sufficient in food production, civil unrest, overpopulation, and soil erosion have contributed to the contraction of the subsistence economy by 25% in recent years. Large numbers of internally displaced persons have been unable to produce their own food and are largely dependent on international humanitarian assistance. Burundi is a net food importer, with food accounting for 17% of imports in 1997. Burundi is a least developed country according to the United Nations. Agriculture Burundi produced in 2018: 2.3 million tons of cassava; 1.6 million tons of banana; 583 thousand tons of sweet potato; 556 thousand tons of vegetables; 393 thousand tons of beans; 302 thousand tons of potato; 290 thousand tons of maize; 178 thousand tons of sugar cane; 85 thousand tons of palm oil; 56 thousand tons of taro; 55 thousand tons of rice; 52 thousand tons of tea; In addition to smaller productions of other agricultural products, like sorghum (28 thousand tons) and coffee (14 thousand tons). Industry Little industry exists except for the processing of agricultural exports. Although potential wealth in petroleum, nickel, copper, and other natural resources is being explored, the uncertain security situation has prevented meaningful investor interest. Industrial development also is hampered by Burundi's distance from the sea and high transport costs. Lake Tanganyika remains an important trading point. The trade embargo, lifted in 1999, negatively impacted trade and industry. Since October 1993 the nation has suffered from massive ethnic-based violence which has resulted in the death of perhaps 250,000 people and the displacement of about 800,000 others. Foods, medicines, and electricity remain in short supply. Burundi is heavily dependent on bilateral and multilateral aid, with external debt totaling $1.247 billion (1.247 G$) in 1997. A series of largely unsuccessful 5-year plans initiated in July 1986 in partnership with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund attempted to reform the foreign exchange system, liberalize imports, reduce restrictions on international transactions, diversify exports, and reform the coffee industry. IMF structural adjustment programs in Burundi were suspended following the outbreak of the crisis in 1993. The World Bank has identified key areas for potential growth, including the productivity of traditional crops and the introduction of new exports, light manufactures, industrial mining, and services. Other serious problems include the state's role in the economy, the question of governmental transparency, and debt reduction. To protest the 1996 coup by President Pierre Buyoya, neighboring countries imposed an economic embargo on Burundi. Although the embargo was never officially ratified by the United Nations Security Council, most countries refrained from official trade with Burundi. Following the coup, the United States also suspended all but humanitarian aid to Burundi. The regional embargo was lifted on January 23, 1999, based on progress by the government in advancing national reconciliation through the Burundi peace process. In an article titled "The Blood Cries Out," Foreign Policy (FP) reported that the Burundian population growth rate is 2.5 percent per year, more than double the average global pace, and that a Burundian woman has on average 6.3 children, nearly triple the international fertility rate. FP further reported that "The vast majority of Burundians rely on subsistence farming, but under the weight of a booming population and in the long-standing absence of coherent policies governing land ownership, many people barely have enough earth to sustain themselves." In 2014, the average size for a farm was about one acre. FP added that "The consequence is remarkable scarcity: In the 2013 Global Hunger Index, Burundi had the severest hunger and malnourishment rates of all 120 countries ranked." Macro-economic trend The following table shows the main economic indicators in 1980–2017. See also United Nations Economic Commission for Africa List of companies based in Burundi References External links Burundi latest trade data on ITC Trade Map Burundi
Communications in Burundi include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, the Internet, and the postal service in Burundi. Radio and television Radio is the main source of information for many Burundians. Radio stations: La Radiodiffusion et Television Nationale de Burundi (RTNB), the state-controlled broadcaster operates the only national radio network, broadcasting in Kirundi, Swahili, French, and English; roughly 10 privately owned radio stations are operating; transmissions of several international broadcasters are available in the largest city, Bujumbura (2007). No AM radio stations, four FM stations, and one shortwave station (2001). Two AM stations, two FM stations, and no shortwave stations (1998). Radios: 440,000 radios in use (1997). Television stations: La Radiodiffusion et Television Nationale de Burundi (RTNB), the state-controlled national network, broadcasting in Kirundi, Swahili, French, and English (2013); and Tele Renaissance, a private station launched in 2008 (2013). BeTV, a private television channel launched in 2017. Television sets: 25,000 sets in use (1997). The BBC World Service broadcasts on 90.2 FM in the largest city and former capital, Bujumbura, and on 105.6 in Mount Manga; Radio France Internationale and the Voice of America are also available in the capital. Telephones Calling code: +257 International call prefix: 00 Telephone system: In 2011, system described as sparse open-wire, radiotelephone communications, and low-capacity microwave radio relays; telephone density one of the lowest in the world; fixed-line connections stand at well less than 1 per 100 persons; mobile-cellular usage is increasing but remains at roughly 20 per 100 persons; In 2010, system described as “primitive” with “one of the lowest” telephone densities in the world and “increasing … but meager” use of cell phones; the number of fixed-line telephone connections was far fewer than one per every 100 persons; roughly five cell phones in use per 100 persons; the domestic telephone system consists of open-wire, radiotelephone communications, along with low capacity microwave radio relay. Main lines: 17,400 lines in use, 193rd in the world (2012); 30,400 lines in use, 178th in the world (2008), a decrease from 2006; 35,000 lines in use (2006); 27,000 lines in use (2005); 17,000 lines in use (1995). Mobile cellular lines: 2.2 million lines, 140th in the world (2012); 480,600 lines, 156th in the world (2008), a large increase, almost doubling the figure from 2006; 250,000 lines (2006); 153,000 lines (2005); 343 lines (1995). Satellite earth stations: one station, operated by Intelsat in the Indian Ocean region (2008). Internet Internet top-level domain: .bi Internet users: 128,799 users, 167th in the world; 1.2% of the population, 208th in the world (2012); 65,000 users, 167th in the world (2008); 60,000 users (2006). Fixed broadband: 422 subscriptions, 189th in the world; less than 0.05% of the population, 191st in the world (2012). Wireless broadband: Unknown (2012). Internet hosts: 229 hosts. 198th in the world (2012); 191 hosts, 189th in the world (2009); 162 hosts (2008). IPv4: 5,376 addresses allocated, less than 0.05% of the world total, 0.5 addresses per 1000 people (2012). Internet censorship and surveillance There are no government restrictions on access to the Internet or credible reports that the government monitors e-mail or Internet chat rooms. Operating in a turbulent political climate, Burundi's media are subject to occasional government censorship and may practice self-censorship. The constitution and law provide for freedom of speech and press, and the government generally respects these rights. The law prohibits the media from spreading "hate" messages or from using abusive or defamatory language against public servants acting in their official role that could damage the dignity of or respect for the public office. Libel laws prohibit the public distribution of information that exposes a person to "public contempt" and carry penalties of prison terms and fines. The crime of treason, which includes knowingly demoralizing the military or the nation in a manner that endangers national defense during a time of war, carries a criminal penalty of life imprisonment. It is a crime for anyone knowingly to disseminate or publicize false rumors likely to alarm or excite the public against the government or to promote civil war. It is illegal for anyone to display drawings, posters, photographs, or other items that may disturb the public peace. Penalties range from two months' to three years' imprisonment and fines. Some journalists, lawyers, and political party, civil society, and NGO leaders allege the government uses these laws to intimidate and harass them. The constitution and law provide for the right to privacy, but the government does not always respect this right in practice. Authorities do not always respect the law requiring search warrants. Postal Service Régie Nationale des Postes (RNP, National Postal Administration) is responsible for postal service in Burundi. Operating as an independent state-owned company since 1992, the RNP has reported to the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, Posts and Tourism since 2010. See also Burundi National Radio and Television (RTNB), the national broadcaster of Burundi. Media of Burundi Economy of Burundi References External links NIC.bi, registry for the .bi domain. Radio Télévision Nationale du Burundi (RTNB), the national broadcaster of Burundi. Burundi
There are a number of systems of transport in Burundi, including road and water-based infrastructure, the latter of which makes use of Lake Tanganyika. Furthermore, there are also some airports in Burundi. Burundi has limited ferry services on Lake Tanganyika, few road connections to neighboring countries, no rail connections, and only one airport with a paved runway. Public transport is extremely limited and private bus companies operate buses on the route to Kigali, Uganda, Tanzania and Democratic Republic of Congo. Roads Roads total as of 2004. On paper, there are 90 public buses in the country but few of these are operational. Transport is extremely limited, and private bus companies operate buses on the route to Kigali, Uganda, Tanzania or the Democratic Republic of Congo. Waterways Lake Tanganyika is used for transport, with the major port on the lake being Bujumbura. Most freight is transported down waterways. As of May 2015, MV Mwongozo, a passenger and cargo ferry, connects Bujumbura with Kigoma in Tanzania. Airports and air services Burundi possesses eight airports, of which one has paved runways, whose length exceeds 3,047m. Bujumbura International Airport is the country's primary airport and the country's only airport with a paved runway. There are also a number of helicopter landing strips. As of May 2015, the airlines serving Burundi are: Brussels Airlines, Ethiopian Airlines, flydubai, Kenya Airways, and RwandAir. Kigali is the city with the most daily departures. Railways Burundi does not possess any railway infrastructure, although there are proposals to connect Burundi to its neighbours via railway. At a meeting in August 2006 with members of the Rwanda Patriotic Front, Wu Guanzheng, of the Chinese Communist Party, confirmed the intention of China to fund a study into the feasibility of constructing a railway connecting at Isaka with the existing Tanzanian railway network, and running via Kigali in Rwanda through to Burundi. Tanzanian railways use , although TAZARA and other neighbouring countries, including the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) use the gauge, leading to some potential difficulties. Another project was launched in the same year, which aims to link Burundi and Rwanda (which also has no railways) to the DRC and Zambia, and therefore to the rest of Southern Africa. At a meeting to inaugurate the Northern Corridor Transit and Transport Coordination Authority (NCTTCA), the governments of Uganda and Burundi backed the proposed new railway from the Ugandan western railhead at Kasese into the DRC. Additionally, Burundi has been added to a planned railway project to connect Tanzania and Rwanda. In January 2022, the governments of Burundi and Tanzania announced the planned construction of an electrified standard gauge railway, which will link the two countries. The line is known as the Tanzania–Burundi Standard Gauge Railway. 2013 A project started in November 2013 to build a Standard Gauge line from Mombassa, Kenya, to Burundi, via Rwanda and Uganda. The main line from Mombasa will also feature branches in other directions, including Ethiopia and DR Congo. See also East African Railway Master Plan External links UN Map of Burundi Map of railways in southern Africa References
Burundi's relations with its neighbours have often been affected by security concerns. Hundreds of thousands of Burundian refugees have at various times crossed to neighboring Rwanda, Tanzania, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Hundreds of thousands of Burundians are in neighboring countries as a result of the ongoing civil war. Most of them, more than 340,000 since 1993, are in Tanzania. Some Burundian rebel groups have used neighboring countries as bases for insurgent activities. The 1993 embargo placed on Burundi by regional states hurt diplomatic relations with its neighbors; relations have improved since the 1999 suspension of these sanctions. Burundi is a member of various international and regional organizations, including the United Nations, the African Union, the African Development Bank and the Francophonie. The Swedish Minister for Integration and Gender Equality, Nyamko Sabuni, was born in Burundi. Bilateral relations Africa Americas Asia Europe Pacific See also List of diplomatic missions in Burundi List of diplomatic missions of Burundi References
BE or be may refer to: Linguistics To be, the English copular verb Be (Cyrillic), a letter of the Cyrillic alphabet be (interjection), in several languages Be languages or Ong Be, a pair of languages of northern Hainan province, China Black English, or African-American Vernacular English, an English dialect be – ISO 639-1 code for Belarusian language Music Albums Be (Beady Eye album), 2013 Be (Casiopea album), 1998 Be (Common album), 2005 BE (Pain of Salvation album), 2004 BE (Original Stage Production), a 2005 live album by Pain of Salvation Be (BTS album), 2020 Songs "Be" (Neil Diamond song), a 1973 single "Be", a song by Jessica Simpson from In This Skin "Be", a song by Lenny Kravitz from Let Love Rule "Be", a song by Slade from Whatever Happened to Slade Organisations Be Inc., a former US software company (1990–2001) and developer of the Be Operating System (BeOS) Be Unlimited, a former UK Internet service provider (2003–2014) Badminton Europe, the governing body of badminton in Europe British Eventing, the British governing body for the equestrian sport of eventing BearingPoint (former stock ticker symbol BE) or Left Bloc, a Portuguese political party Bob Evans Restaurants, an American restaurant chain Places Bè, a neighborhood in Togo Belgium (ISO 3166-1 and FIPS 10-4 country code: BE) Berlin, a state of Germany Canton of Bern, a canton of Switzerland Science and technology Base excess (BE), excess or deficit in the amount of base in the blood Beryllium, symbol Be, a chemical element Computing .be, the country code top-level domain for Belgium Backup Exec, backup and recovery software from Veritas Software Big-endian, a system that stores the most significant byte of a word at the smallest memory address BeOS, an operating system by Be Physics Baumé scale (°Bé), a density scale Be star, in astronomy, a B-type star Bejan number (Be), in thermodynamics and fluid mechanics Transportation BE Be Electric, Electric Car Manufacturing Company Baltimore and Eastern Railroad Company (B&E), US Beriev (design office prefix: Be), a Russian aircraft manufacturer Blue Engines (prefix: BE), the rocket engines from Blue Origin BE, then IATA code of Flybe (2022-2023), former English airline BE, then IATA code of Flybe (1979-2020), former English airline BE, then IATA code of British European Airways (1946-1974), fromer British airline Other uses Bé (footballer), Portuguese footballer Bachelor of Engineering, an academic degree Bahá'í Era, in timekeeping Buddhist Era, in timekeeping See also B (disambiguation) Bay (disambiguation) BBE (disambiguation) Bebe (disambiguation) Bee (disambiguation)
A bell is a percussion instrument, usually cup-shaped. Bell may also refer to: Sound and music Bell (wind instrument), a part of a wind instrument Bell cymbal, a type of cymbal, tending to be thick and uniformly so, and small Bell effect, a musical technique Cymbal bell, the most central part of a cymbal Signals Bell, a signal from an engine order telegraph, a communications device used on a ship or submarine Alarm bell, used to alert people of a fire or burglary detected or, as part of a traditional alarm clock, to awaken or remind Church bell, indicating when to go to church Doorbell, a signaling device to alert residents to visitors Division bell, used in a parliament to call members to a vote Last call bell, a signal that a bar is closing soon School bell, a signal used for transitions during a school day Ship's bell, a signal for marking time on a ship People Bell (surname), a list of people with the surname Bell Alexander Graham Bell (1847–1922), Scottish-Canadian-American inventor, teacher, engineer, and scientist, son of Alexander Melville Bell John Stewart Bell or J. S. Bell (1928–1990), Northern Irish physicist and the originator of Bell's theorem in quantum physics bell hooks, pen name of Gloria Jean Watkins (1952–2021), American author, academic, and activist Places Africa Bell, Eastern Cape, a South African town Port Bell, Lake Victoria, Uganda Australia Bell, New South Wales Bell, Queensland Canada Bell Island (Newfoundland and Labrador), Newfoundland and Labrador Bell Peninsula, Nunavut Bell River (Quebec), a tributary of Matagami Lake, then Nottaway River flowing in Abitibi-Témiscamingue and in Nord-du-Québec, in Quebec, in Canada Europe Bell, Mayen-Koblenz, Germany, a municipality Bell, Rhein-Hunsrück, Germany, a municipality Bell End, UK United States Bell, California Bell, Florida Bell, Illinois Bell, Oklahoma Bell, Wisconsin Bell Canyon, California Bell City, Missouri Bell County, Kentucky Bell County, Texas Bell Township, Pennsylvania (disambiguation) Other places Bell (crater), a crater on the Moon Bell Creek (disambiguation) Art, entertainment, and media Bell (fictional currency), in the game Animal Crossing Bell Fibe TV, an IP-based television service offered in Ontario and Quebec Buildings Bell (St. Paul's Churchyard), a historical bookseller in London Bell Centre, a stadium in Montreal, Quebec, Canada Bell Laboratories Building, an historic building in Manhattan, New York Bell Lightbox, a skyscraper in Toronto, Ontario, Canada Bell Sensplex, a four-pad ice facility in the city of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada Bell Sports Complex, a sports facility in Brossard, Quebec, Canada Campus Bell, headquarters of Bell Canada, on Nuns' Island in Montreal, Canada Businesses Public houses Bell Inn, Enfield, London, England The Bell, City of London, England The Bell Inn, Aldworth, Berkshire, England The Bell Inn, Long Hanborough, Oxfordshire, England The Bell Inn, Nottingham, England Telecommunications Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell Bell Atlantic, the name of the Bell Operating Company serving the mid-Atlantic US, merged in 2000 with GTE to form Verizon BCE Inc., formerly Bell Canada Enterprises, a telecommunications holding company in Canada Bell Aliant, a telecommunications subsidiary of Bell Canada Bell Canada, a telecommunications subsidiary of BCE Inc. Bell Internet, an internet service provider and subsidiary of Bell Canada Bell Media, a media subsidiary of BCE Inc. Bell MTS, a telecommunications subsidiary of Bell Canada Bell Mobility, a wireless network subsidiary of Bell Canada Bell Satellite TV, a satellite television service and subsidiary of Bell Canada Bell Communications Research, Inc., a research & development organization, originally a joint subsidiary of the Regional Bell Operating Companies, since renamed to Telcordia Technologies, Inc. and now a subsidiary of Ericsson Bell Labs, a research & development organization founded by AT&T, now owned by Nokia Bell System, the organization that provided telephone service in the United States until 1984 Bell Telephone Company, founded in 1877 by the family of Alexander Graham Bell Illinois Bell, the name of the Bell Operating Company serving Illinois Indiana Bell, the Bell Operating Company serving Indiana Michigan Bell, the subsidiary of AT&T serving the state of Michigan Mountain Bell, the name of the Bell Operating Company serving the US Rocky Mountain region Nevada Bell, the Bell System's telephone provider in Nevada New Jersey Bell, (1904–1983) Northwestern Bell, the name of the Bell Operating Company serving the North Central and Northwestern US Ohio Bell, the Bell Operating Company serving most of Ohio Pacific Bell, the name of the Bell System's telephone operations in California Regional Bell Operating Company, any of the phone companies spun off from AT&T in 1984 South Central Bell, the name of the Bell Operating Company serving the South-Central US Southern Bell, the name of the Bell Operating Company serving the Southeastern US Southwestern Bell, the name of the Bell Operating Company serving Kansas, Missouri, Oklahoma, and Texas Wisconsin Bell, (1984–1999) Other business Bell Aircraft, an aircraft manufacturer of the United States Bell Helicopter, an American rotorcraft manufacturer Bell ID, a software company based in The Netherlands Bell Records, a record label Bell Sports Inc., a helmet manufacturer Bell's Brewery, based in Michigan Mathematics, science and technology Bell, the body of a jellyfish Bell character, in computing, a device control code Bell number, in mathematics Bell polynomials, in mathematics Bell state, in quantum information science Diving bell, a cable-suspended underwater airtight chamber Transportation Rail Bell (METRORail station), Houston, Texas, United States Bell railway station, Melbourne, Australia Bell railway station, New South Wales, Australia Sea SS Empire Bell, a Swedish collier (bulk cargo ship) launched in 1930 USS Bell, either of two U.S. Navy ships Other forms of transportation Bell (cyclecar), a British three-wheeled cyclecar made in 1920 by W.G. Bell of Rochester, Kent Bell tailslide, an aerobatic maneuver Other uses Bell (typeface), a typeface designed in 1788 by Richard Austin Bell Challenge, a WTA Tour Tier III tennis tournament held in Quebec Bell High School (disambiguation) Bell House (disambiguation) Bell Lake (disambiguation) Bell pepper See also Bel (disambiguation) Bell, Book & Candle (disambiguation) Belle (disambiguation) Bells (disambiguation) The Bell (disambiguation) The Bells (disambiguation) Justice Bell (disambiguation) Glockenspiel (disambiguation)
Biotics describe living or once living components of a community; for example organisms, such as animals and plants. Biotic may refer to: Life, the condition of living organisms Biology, the study of life Biotic material, which is derived from living organisms Biotic components in ecology Biotic potential, an organism's reproductive capacity Biotic community, all the interacting organisms living together in a specific habitat Biotic energy, a vital force theorized by biochemist Benjamin Moore Biotic Baking Brigade, an unofficial group of pie-throwing activists See also Abiotic Antibiotics are agents that either kill bacteria or inhibit their growth Prebiotics are non-digestible food ingredients that stimulate the growth or activity of bacteria in the digestive system Probiotics consist of a live culture of bacteria that inhibit or interfere with colonization by microbial pathogens Synbiotics refer to nutritional supplements combining probiotics and prebiotics
UK bass, also called bass music, is club music that emerged in the United Kingdom during the mid-2000s under the influence of diverse genres such as house, grime, dubstep, UK garage, R&B, and UK funky. The term "UK bass" came into use as artists began ambiguously blending the sounds of these defined genres while maintaining an emphasis on percussive, bass-led rhythm. UK bass is sometimes conflated with bassline or post-dubstep. It is not to be confused with the hip hop and electro-based genre Miami bass, which is sometimes called "bass music" as well. Origins The breadth of styles that have come to be associated with the term preclude it from being a specific musical genre. Pitchfork writer Martin Clark has suggested that "well-meaning attempts to loosely define the ground we're covering here are somewhat futile and almost certainly flawed. This is not one genre. However, given the links, interaction, and free-flowing ideas ... you can't dismiss all these acts as unrelated." Dubstep producer Skream is quoted in an interview with The Independent in September 2011 as saying: The word dubstep is being used by a lot of people and there were a lot of people being tagged with the dubstep brush. They don't want to be tagged with it and shouldn't be tagged with it – that's not what they're pushing... When I say 'UK bass', it's what everyone UK is associated with so it would be a lot easier if it was called that." In the United Kingdom, bass music has had major mainstream success since the late 2000s and early 2010s, with artists such as James Blake, Benga, Burial, SBTRKT, Sophie, Rustie, Zomby, and Skream. The term "post-dubstep" has been used synonymously to refer to artists, such as Blake and Mount Kimbie whose work draws on UK garage, 2-step, and other forms of underground dance music, as well as ambient music and early R&B. Outside of nightclubs, UK bass has mainly been promoted and played on Internet radio stations such as Sub.FM and Rinse FM. References 2000s in music 2010s in music 21st-century music genres British styles of music Dubstep Electronic dance music genres
The Battle of Adrianople (378 CE), in which Gothic rebels defeated the Eastern Roman Empire, was the main battle of the Gothic War (376–382). Battle of Adrianople may also refer to: Battle of Adrianople (324), a battle in which Constantine the Great defeated Licinius in a Roman civil war Siege of Adrianople (378), an unsuccessful siege by the Goths following the Battle of Adrianople Battle of Adrianople (718), a battle between an alliance of Bulgarians and Byzantines against the Umayyad Caliphate, during the Siege of Constantinople (717–718) Battle of Adrianople (813), a successful Bulgarian siege of the Byzantine city Battle of Adrianople (914), a battle between Bulgarians and Byzantines Battle of Adrianople (972), a battle between Byzantines and Kievan Rus' led by Sviatoslav I of Kiev Battle of Adrianople (1003), a battle between Bulgarians and Byzantines Battle of Adrianople (1094), part of the revolt of Constantine Diogenes (pretender) and his Cuman allies Battle of Adrianople (1205), part of the Fourth Crusade, in which the Bulgarians defeated the Crusaders Battle of Adrianople (1226), part of the revolt of Theodore Komnenos Doukas Battle of Adrianople (1254), in which the Byzantines defeated the Bulgarians Battle of Adrianople (1305), a battle between the Byzantines and the Catalan Company Battle of Adrianople (1355), a battle between the Byzantines and the Serbs led by Stefan Dušan Battle of Adrianople (1365), in which the Ottoman Empire took the city from the Byzantine Empire Battle of Adrianople (1829), in which the Russians seized the city from the Ottoman Empire Siege of Adrianople (1912–1913), in which the Bulgarians took the city from the Ottomans in the First Balkan War Siege of Adrianople (1913) See also Adrianople Battle of Tzirallum, a 313 CE battle in which Licinius defeated Maximinus Daia in a Roman civil war
Britain most often refers to: The United Kingdom, a sovereign state in Europe comprising the island of Great Britain, the north-eastern part of the island of Ireland and many smaller islands Great Britain, the largest island in: the United Kingdom; the British Isles archipelago; and Europe. Britain may also refer to: Places British Isles, an archipelago comprising Great Britain, Ireland and many other smaller islands British Islands, the UK, Channel Islands and Isle of Man collectively Roman Britain, a Roman province corresponding roughly to modern-day England and Wales Historical predecessors to the present-day United Kingdom: Kingdom of Great Britain (1707 to 1801) United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland (1801 to 1922) Britain (place name) Britain, Virginia, an unincorporated community in the United States People Calvin Britain (1800–1862), an American politician Clarissa Britain (1816–1895), an American inventor Kristen Britain (born 1965), an American novelist Other uses Captain Britain, a Marvel Comics superhero See also Terminology of the British Isles England Britains Britannia Brittain (disambiguation) Brittany (disambiguation) Brit (disambiguation) Britten (disambiguation) Briton (disambiguation) Brittonic languages British (disambiguation) Great Britain (disambiguation) Little Britain (disambiguation) New Britain (disambiguation) National sports teams of the United Kingdom
Bourbon may refer to: Food and drink Bourbon whiskey, an American whiskey made using a corn-based mash Bourbon barrel aged beer, a type of beer aged in bourbon barrels Bourbon biscuit, a chocolate sandwich biscuit A beer produced by Brasseries de Bourbon Bourbon chicken, a dish made with bourbon whiskey Bourbon coffee, a type of coffee made from a cultivar of Coffea arabica Bourbon Coffee, a coffeehouse chain Bourbon vanilla, a cultivar of vanilla Places Bourbon, Indiana, United States Bourbon, Missouri, United States Bourbon, Boone County, Missouri Bourbon County, Kentucky, United States Bourbon County, Kansas, United States Bourbon Street, a street in New Orleans, Louisiana, United States Bourbon-l'Archambault, Allier département, France Bourbon-Lancy, Saône-et-Loire département, France Bourbonne-les-Bains, Haute-Marne département, France Bourbonnais, an area derived from the former dukedom of Bourbon, France Île Bourbon, former name for the Island of Réunion Politics and history House of Bourbon, French and Spanish royal dynasties Spanish royal family Duke of Bourbon, a title in the peerage of France Bourbon Reforms, a series of measures taken by the Spanish Crown Bourbon Restoration (disambiguation), the return to monarchs in the Bourbon Dynasty in France and Spain Bourbon Democrat, from 1876 to 1904 a conservative member of the US Democratic Party Other uses USS Bourbon, a frigate Bourbon virus, a tick-borne virus discovered in the summer of 2014 Bourbon (horse) (foaled in 1774), a British Thoroughbred racehorse "Bourbon", a 2019 song by Chad Brownlee from Back in the Game See also Barbon, a village in Cumbria, England Bhurban, a small town and a hill station in Punjab province, Pakistan Bourbonism (disambiguation) Borbon (disambiguation) Constable de Bourbon (disambiguation) Bourbon Kid, a supernatural horror book series by an anonymous British author
The Belgian Blue (, , both literally meaning "Belgian White-Blue") is a breed of beef cattle from Belgium. It may also be known as the , or (literally "fat buttocks" in Dutch). Alternative names for this breed include Belgian Blue-White; Belgian White and Blue Pied; Belgian White Blue; Blue; and Blue Belgian. The Belgian Blue's extremely lean, hyper-sculpted, ultra-muscular physique is termed "double-muscling". The double-muscling phenotype is a heritable condition resulting in an increased number of muscle fibres (hyperplasia), instead of the (normal) enlargement of individual muscle fibres (hypertrophy). This particular trait is shared with another breed of cattle known as Piedmontese. Both of these breeds have an increased ability to convert feed into lean muscle, which causes these particular breeds' meat to have a reduced fat content and reduced tenderness. The Belgian Blue is named after its typically blue-grey mottled hair colour; however, its actual colour can vary from white to black. History The breed originated in central and upper Belgium in the 19th century, from crossing local breeds with a Shorthorn breed of cattle from the United Kingdom. Charolais cattle possibly were cross-bred, as well. Belgian Blue cattle were first used as a dairy and beef breed. The modern beef breed was developed in the 1950s by Professor Hanset, working at an artificial insemination centre in Liège Province. The breed's characteristic gene mutation was maintained through linebreeding to the point where the condition was a fixed property in the Belgian Blue breed. In 1978, Belgian Blue cattle were introduced to the United States by Nick Tutt, a farmer from central Canada who emigrated to West Texas and showed the cattle to universities in the region. The Belgian Blue has been exported to many parts of the world; it is reported to DAD-IS by twenty-four countries, in Africa, the Americas, Europe and Oceania. Of these, ten report population data; in 2022 the worldwide population was estimated to be . Characteristics The Belgian Blue has a natural mutation in the myostatin gene which codes for the protein, myostatin ("myo" meaning muscle and "statin" meaning stop). Myostatin is a protein that inhibits muscle development. This mutation also interferes with fat deposition, resulting in very lean meat. The truncated myostatin gene is unable to function in its normal capacity, resulting in accelerated lean muscle growth. Muscle growth is due primarily to physiological changes in the animal's muscle cells (fibres) from hypertrophy to a hyperplasia mode of growth. This particular type of growth is seen early in the fetus of a pregnant dam, which results in a calf that is born with two times the number of muscle fibres at birth than a calf with no myostatin gene mutation. In addition, a newborn double-muscled calf's birth weight is significantly greater than that of a normal calf. Belgian Blue cattle have improved feed conversion ratio (FCR) due to lower feed intake compared to weight gain due to an altered composition of body weight gain which includes increased protein and decreased fat deposition. The Belgian Blue's bone structure is the same as normal cattle, albeit holding a greater amount of muscle, which causes them to have a greater meat to bone ratio. These cattle have a muscle yield around 20% more on average than cattle without the genetic myostatin mutation. Because of this breed's increased muscle yield, a diet containing higher protein is required to compensate for the altered mode of weight gain. During finishing, this breed requires high-energy (concentrated) feeds, and will not yield the same results if put on a high-fibre diet. Breed problems Double-muscled cows routinely experience dystocia – difficulty in parturition – even when bred to normal beef bulls or dairy bulls, because of a narrower birth canal; the birth weight and width of the calf also may be higher than in animals without the double-muscling gene. Calves are commonly born by Caesarean section; cows may be able to survive five or six deliveries of this type. In bulls, testicular weight and semen quantity and quality are lower than in other cattle, perhaps because of the greater amount of connective tissue in the testicles. however this is less of an issue when compared to the dam's difficulties in calving. Economic efficiency The economics of breeding and raising Belgian Blue cattle are inconclusive because of complications experienced during parturition and metabolic demand for more concentrated feeds. The breed's increased need to have Caesarean sections when calving means increased cost and added work, and can become a welfare issue. However, the carcass value of double-muscled animals may be enhanced due to increased dressing yield, lean carcass content, and upgrading of some cuts leading to a higher proportion of higher valued cuts. The slower rate of fat deposition causes slaughtering to be delayed in most cases, which means an increase in maintenance costs in those animals. Belgian Blue cattle require more skilled management and do not thrive in harsh environments. For these reasons and others, the breed's overall production efficiency in an economic sense is still unclear. References Cattle breeds originating in Belgium
Bauxite is a sedimentary rock with a relatively high aluminium content. It is the world's main source of aluminium and gallium. Bauxite consists mostly of the aluminium minerals gibbsite (Al(OH)3), boehmite (γ-AlO(OH)) and diaspore (α-AlO(OH)), mixed with the two iron oxides goethite (FeO(OH)) and haematite (Fe2O3), the aluminium clay mineral kaolinite (Al2Si2O5(OH)4) and small amounts of anatase (TiO2) and ilmenite (FeTiO3 or FeO.TiO2). Bauxite appears dull in luster and is reddish-brown, white, or tan. In 1821, the French geologist Pierre Berthier discovered bauxite near the village of Les Baux in Provence, southern France. Formation Numerous classification schemes have been proposed for bauxite but, , there was no consensus. Vadász (1951) distinguished lateritic bauxites (silicate bauxites) from karst bauxite ores (carbonate bauxites): The carbonate bauxites occur predominantly in Europe, Guyana, Suriname, and Jamaica above carbonate rocks (limestone and dolomite), where they were formed by lateritic weathering and residual accumulation of intercalated clay layers – dispersed clays which were concentrated as the enclosing limestones gradually dissolved during chemical weathering. The lateritic bauxites are found mostly in the countries of the tropics. They were formed by lateritization of various silicate rocks such as granite, gneiss, basalt, syenite, and shale. In comparison with the iron-rich laterites, the formation of bauxites depends even more on intense weathering conditions in a location with very good drainage. This enables the dissolution of the kaolinite and the precipitation of the gibbsite. Zones with highest aluminium content are frequently located below a ferruginous surface layer. The aluminium hydroxide in the lateritic bauxite deposits is almost exclusively gibbsite. In the case of Jamaica, recent analysis of the soils showed elevated levels of cadmium, suggesting that the bauxite originates from Miocene volcanic ash deposits from episodes of significant volcanism in Central America. Production and reserves Australia is the largest producer of bauxite, followed by Guinea and China. Bauxite is usually strip mined because it is almost always found near the surface of the terrain, with little or no overburden. Increased aluminium recycling, which requires less electric power than producing aluminium from ores, will considerably extend the world's bauxite reserves. Aluminium production , approximately 70% to 80% of the world's dry bauxite production is processed first into alumina and then into aluminium by electrolysis. Bauxite rocks are typically classified according to their intended commercial application: metallurgical, abrasive, cement, chemical, and refractory. Bauxite ore is usually heated in a pressure vessel along with a sodium hydroxide solution at a temperature of . At these temperatures, the aluminium is dissolved as sodium aluminate (the Bayer process). The aluminium compounds in the bauxite may be present as gibbsite(Al(OH)3), boehmite(AlOOH) or diaspore(AlOOH); the different forms of the aluminium component will dictate the extraction conditions. The undissolved waste, bauxite tailings, after the aluminium compounds are extracted contains iron oxides, silica, calcia, titania and some un-reacted alumina. After separation of the residue by filtering, pure gibbsite is precipitated when the liquid is cooled, and then seeded with fine-grained aluminium hydroxide. The gibbsite is usually converted into aluminium oxide, Al2O3, by heating in rotary kilns or fluid flash calciners to a temperature in excess of . This aluminium oxide is dissolved at a temperature of about in molten cryolite. Next, this molten substance can yield metallic aluminium by passing an electric current through it in the process of electrolysis, which is called the Hall–Héroult process, named after its American and French discoverers. Prior to the invention of this process, and prior to the Deville process, aluminium ore was refined by heating ore along with elemental sodium or potassium in a vacuum. The method was complicated and consumed materials that were themselves expensive at that time. This made early elemental aluminium more expensive than gold. Maritime safety As a bulk cargo, bauxite is a Group A cargo that may liquefy if excessively moist. Liquefaction and the free surface effect can cause the cargo to shift rapidly inside the hold and make the ship unstable, potentially sinking the ship. One vessel suspected to have been sunk in this way was the MS Bulk Jupiter in 2015. One method which can demonstrate this effect is the "can test", in which a sample of the material is placed in a cylindrical can and struck against a surface many times. If a moist slurry forms in the can, then there is a likelihood for the cargo to liquefy; although conversely, even if the sample remains dry it does not conclusively prove that it will remain that way, or that it is safe for loading. Source of gallium Bauxite is the main source of the rare metal gallium. During the processing of bauxite to alumina in the Bayer process, gallium accumulates in the sodium hydroxide liquor. From this it can be extracted by a variety of methods. The most recent is the use of ion-exchange resin. Achievable extraction efficiencies critically depend on the original concentration in the feed bauxite. At a typical feed concentration of 50 ppm, about 15 percent of the contained gallium is extractable. The remainder reports to the red mud and aluminium hydroxide streams. Bauxite is also a potential source for vanadium. See also Bauxite, Arkansas Rio Tinto Alcan United Company RUSAL MS Bulk Jupiter References Further reading Bárdossy, G. (1982): Karst Bauxites: Bauxite deposits on carbonate rocks. Elsevier Sci. Publ. 441 p. Bárdossy, G. and Aleva, G.J.J. (1990): Lateritic Bauxites. Developments in Economic Geology 27, Elsevier Sci. Publ. 624 p. Grant, C.; Lalor, G. and Vutchkov, M. (2005) Comparison of bauxites from Jamaica, the Dominican Republic and Suriname. Journal of Radioanalytical and Nuclear Chemistry p. 385–388 Vol.266, No.3 Hanilçi, N. (2013). Geological and geochemical evolution of the Bolkardaği bauxite deposits, Karaman, Turkey: Transformation from shale to bauxite. Journal of Geochemical Exploration External links USGS Minerals Information: Bauxite Mineral Information Institute Sedimentary rocks Aluminium minerals Articles containing video clips Regolith Weathering
Bisexuality better known as bisexual, in human sexuality, describes a person that is sexually attracted to persons of both the same sex and persons of the opposite sex. Bisexual may also refer to: Bisexual characteristics, having an ambiguous sexual identity (e.g. epicenity or androgyny) A bisexual flower (monoicy), in botany, one that possesses both male (pollen-producing) and female (seed-producing) parts A bisexual plant (monoecy), in botany, having separate male and female cones or flowers on the same plant Dioecy, in biology, a species that has members of two different distinct sexes (e.g. humans), opposed to unisexual (only one sex present, always females) The Bisexual, a 2018 British-American comedy-drama television series See also By-Sexual, a Japanese visual kei punk rock band from Osaka
A bay is an area of water bordered by land on three sides. Bay, Bays or baying may also refer to: Places China Bay County or Baicheng County, Aksu Prefecture, Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region France Bay, Haute-Saône, a commune Philippines Bay, Laguna, a municipality Bay River Somalia Bay, Somalia United Kingdom Morecambe Bay, the largest intertidal bay in England United States Bay, Arkansas Bay, Springfield, Massachusetts, a neighborhood Bay, Missouri Bay County, Florida Bay County, Michigan Bays, Kentucky Bays, Ohio Chesapeake Bay, an estuary in the District of Columbia, Maryland, Delaware, and Virginia Jamaica Bay, in Queens, New York San Francisco Bay, a shallow estuary in the U.S. state of California San Francisco Bay Area, or simply the Bay Area Animals and plants Animals Bay (horse), a color of the hair coats of some horses Baying, a kind of howling made by canines Plants Bay laurel, the evergreen laurel tree species Laurus nobilis Bay leaf, the aromatic leaves of several species of the Laurel family Rose bay, a common name for Rhododendron maximum Architecture and interior design Bay (architecture), a module in classical or Gothic architecture Bay, the name in English of a ken, a Japanese unit of measure and proportion Bay window, a window space projecting outward from the main walls of a building and forming a bay in a room Bay (shelving), a basic unit of library shelving Arts, entertainment, and media Radio stations Bay Radio (Malta), a radio station located in Malta Bay Radio (Spain), a radio station serving the Valencian Community in Spain Heart North Lancashire & Cumbria, formerly The Bay, a radio station in North West England Hot Radio, originally operating as The Bay 102.8, a radio station in Dorset, England, Swansea Bay Radio, a radio station in South Wales WZBA, a classic rock radio station, operating as 100.7 The Bay, in Westminster, Maryland Other arts, entertainment, and media The Bay (film), a 2012 American found footage horror film The Bay (web series), a soap opera web series that premiered in 2010 "The Bay", a 2011 single by Metronomy The Bay (TV series), a British crime drama Bays (album), a 2015 album by Fat Freddy's Drop Businesses Bank of Ayudhya, a Thai commercial bank (Stock symbol: BAY) Bay Networks, a network hardware vendor acquired by Nortel Networks in 1998 Bay Trading Company, a retailer of woman's clothes in the UK Hudson's Bay (retailer) or The Bay, a chain of department stores in Canada Transport Baia Mare Airport in Baia Mare, Romania Bay platform, a dead-end platform at a railway station which has through lines Bay station, a subway station in Toronto Bay, the space enclosed by a set of struts on a biplane (see ) Loading bay, a synonym for loading dock People Bay (chancellor), a royal scribe to an ancient Egyptian ruler Bay (surname) Bay Buchanan (born 1948), prominent conservative political commentator Other uses Bay (cloth), a coarse woolen cloth similar to Baize but lighter in weight and with shorter pile. Drive bay, an area for adding hardware in a computer Sick bay, nautical term for the location in a ship that is used for medical purposes The Bay School of San Francisco, a private high school Substation bay, an interconnection of equipment in an electrical substation See also Bay Area (disambiguation) Bay breeze (disambiguation) Bay Bridge (disambiguation) Bay City (disambiguation) Bay School (disambiguation) Bay Street (disambiguation) Bay Township (disambiguation) Baye (disambiguation) Bae (disambiguation) Bays (disambiguation) Bey (disambiguation) eBay
The B-52 is an American strategic bomber aircraft. B-52 or B52 may also refer to: The B-52's, an American new wave band The B-52's (album) B52 (New York City bus), a bus line in Brooklyn, New York B52 (chess opening), a chess opening based on the Sicilian Defence B-52 (cocktail) B-52 (hairstyle) or beehive, a hairstyle B-52 Memorial Park, a park within the Orlando International Airport, Florida Volvo B52 engine, a group of Volvo engines Nora B-52, a Serbian self-propelled howitzer HLA-B52, an HLA-B serotype Bundesstraße 52, a federal highway in Germany B52, route number for Kings Highway in Australia B-52, a coded reference to Mao Zedong in Project 571 B-52, a pennant number of the Argentinian fast transport ship ARA Hércules (B-52)
BSE may refer to: Medicine Bovine spongiform encephalopathy, also known as mad cow disease, a neurodegenerative disease of cattle Breast self-examination Stock exchanges Bahrain Stock Exchange, Bahrain Baku Stock Exchange, Azerbaijan Barbados Stock Exchange Beijing Stock Exchange, China Bombay Stock Exchange, Mumbai, India Boston Stock Exchange, Massachusetts, US Botswana Stock Exchange in Gaborone, Botswana Budapest Stock Exchange, Hungary Bulgarian Stock Exchange – Sofia, BSE-Sofia Other uses Blueprint for a Safer Economy, California classification of safe practices within a lockdown economy Britain Stronger in Europe, a lobbying group Board of Secondary Education, Odisha, India Biological systems engineering Bury St Edmunds railway station (station code), Suffolk, England Backscattered electron (see scanning electron microscope) Blender Stack Exchange, a Q&A site for the Blender 3D software BSE (satellite), a Japanese satellite Bachelor of Science in Engineering, an undergraduate academic degree awarded to a student after 3-5 years of studying engineering at a university or college Black Sun Empire, a Dutch drum and bass group Bethe–Salpeter equation, an equation in quantum field theory Bendigo South East College, a secondary school in Victoria, Australia Banco de Seguros del Estado, a Uruguayan state-owned insurance company Sematan Airport (IATA code: BSE), an airport in Sarawak, Malaysia See also Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease, sometimes called a human form of bovine spongiform encephalopathy
Bille August (born 9 November 1948) is a Danish director, screenwriter, and cinematographer of film and television. In a career spanning over four decades, he has been the recipient of numerous accolades, making him one of the most acclaimed contemporary Danish filmmakers. August's 1987 film Pelle the Conqueror won the , Academy Award and Golden Globe Award. He is one of only nine directors to win the twice, winning the award again in 1992 for The Best Intentions, based on the autobiographical script by Ingmar Bergman. His filmography includes The House of the Spirits, based on the novel by Isabel Allende; Smilla's Sense of Snow; Les Misérables; Night Train to Lisbon, Silent Heart, The Chinese Widow and A Fortunate Man. He has received five Robert Awards (including Best Film and Best Director) and three Bodil Awards for Best Danish Film. He is also a Knight of the Order of the Dannebrog. Life and career August was born on 9 November 1948, in Brede, Denmark. After attending local schools, he graduated from the Foto- og Dokumentarskolan in Stockholm, Sweden, and later from the National Film School of Denmark. He began his career as a cinematographer. He made his feature directorial debut in 1978 with In My Life, which won the Bodil Award for Best Danish Film. He collaborated twice with then wife Pernilla August under George Lucas on The Adventures of Young Indiana Jones in The Perils of Cupid and Tales of Innocence. Pernilla would later star in the first two films of the Star Wars prequel trilogy and appeared in an episode of The Clone Wars television series to reprise her role from the films. After decades of writing, directing and producing notable films in Denmark, on 23 September 2011, Bille August announced that he had opened a studio in Hangzhou, China and taken a position as Tianpeng Media's Art Director, in order to produce Chinese films for Tianpeng Media over the next few years. Tianpeng Media is a new media company established in 2010. The company produced two films, The Women Knight of Mirror (竞雄女侠秋瑾) and The Years of Qi Xiao Fu (七小福之燃情岁月), to be released later in 2011. He is the first foreign director to be hired by the Chinese film company. In 2011 August also accepted the invitation from the Hangzhou government to serve as a "culture consultant" for the city. His film Night Train to Lisbon (2013) premiered out of competition at the 63rd Berlin International Film Festival. He had planned to direct a Gianni Versace biopic with Antonio Banderas as Versace, but this project was cancelled. In August 2021, it was announced that August would direct a feature film adaptation of Karen Blixen's novel Ehrengard, which is being produced by Netflix and SF Studios. Personal life August has been married four times and has a total of eight children with five different women. He was first married to Annie Munksgård Lauritzen, together they had a son Anders Frithiof August (born 15 June 1978). His second wife was Masja Dessau with whom he had a son Adam August (born in 1983), both sons have become screenwriters. His third marriage to Swedish actress Pernilla August was from 1991 to 1997. Together they had daughters Asta Kamma August (born 5 November 1991) and Alba Adèle August (born 6 June 1993); he also became the stepfather of her daughter Agnes from her first marriage to Swedish novelist and screenwriter Klas Östergren. In 2012, he married his fourth and current wife, actress Sara-Marie Maltha after 10 years together. Together they have three children: Amaryllis April August (born 2003), Albert Amadeus August (born 2005), and Aya Anemone August (born 2013). In addition, he has a daughter from a previous relationship, Melina August, (born in 1969). Filmography Film As cinematographer Television References External links 1997 interview with Bille August about Smilla's Sense of Snow 1948 births Living people People from Lyngby-Taarbæk Municipality Danish film directors Danish male screenwriters Danish cinematographers Directors of Palme d'Or winners Directors of Best Foreign Language Film Academy Award winners Knights of the Order of the Dannebrog
Body may refer to: In science Physical body, an object in physics that represents a large amount, has mass or takes up space Body (biology), the physical material of an organism Body plan, the physical features shared by a group of animals Human body, the entire structure of a human organism Dead body, cadaver, or corpse, a dead human body (living) matter, see: Mind–body problem, the relationship between mind and matter in philosophy Aggregates within living matter, such as inclusion bodies In arts and entertainment In film and television Body (2015 Polish film), a 2015 Polish film Body (2015 American film), a 2015 American film "Body" (Wonder Showzen episode), a 2006 episode of American sketch comedy television series Wonder Showzen "Body", an episode of the Adult Swim television series, Off the Air In literature and publishing body text, the text forming the main content of any printed matter body (typography), the size of a piece of metal type B.O.D.Y. (manga), by Ao Mimori B O D Y, an international online literary magazine In music Electronic body music, a genre "Body" (Dreezy song), 2016 "Body" (The Jacksons song), a song by The Jacksons from Victory, 1984 "Body", a 2022 song by Ella Henderson from her second album Everything I Didn't Say "Body" (Ja Rule song), a 2007 hip-hop song "Body" (Loud Luxury song), a 2017 house song "Body" (Marques Houston song), a 2009 R&B song "Body" (Megan Thee Stallion song), a song by Megan Thee Stallion from Good News, 2020 "Body", a song by Julia Michaels, from Inner Monologue Part 2, 2019 "Body" (Russ Millions and Tion Wayne song), a 2021 drill song "Body" (Sean Paul song), a 2017 dancehall song "Body", a 2010 song by Teairra Marí "Body", a song by Men Without Hats from No Hats Beyond This Point, 2003 "Body", a song by Funky Green Dogs from Star, 1999 "Body", a song by Mother Mother from O My Heart, 2008 Body (Aaamyyy album), Japanese musician Aaamyyy's 2019 debut album Body (The Necks album), 2018 album by The Necks B.O.D.Y. (album) (Band Of D Year), a 2006 album by Machel Montano Best Night of My Life, a 2010 Jamie Foxx album originally named Body Other uses Jesse Ventura (born 1951), nicknamed "The Body", American media personality, actor, author, former politician and retired professional wrestler Body (surname) Body (transistor), a terminal of a field-effect transistor Body (wine), a wine tasting descriptor of sense of alcohol and feeling in the mouth Automobile body, the outer body of a motor vehicle which is built around a chassis Body corporate, a corporation capable of having legal rights and duties within a certain legal system Body politic, metaphor in which a nation is considered to be a corporate entity, being likened to a human body An HTML element that contains the displayable content of a page See also Bodi (disambiguation) Bodie (disambiguation) Bodies (disambiguation) Body of Evidence (disambiguation) Body part (disambiguation) Corporeal (disambiguation) Remains (disambiguation) The Body (disambiguation)
In baseball, an at bat (AB) or time at bat is a batter's turn batting against a pitcher. An at bat is different from a plate appearance. A batter is credited with a plate appearance regardless of what happens during their turn at bat, but a batter is credited with an at bat only if that plate appearance does not have one of the results enumerated below. While at bats are used to calculate certain statistics, including batting average and slugging percentage, a player can qualify for the season-ending rankings in these categories only if they accumulate 502 plate appearances during the season. Batters will not receive credit for an at bat if their plate appearances end under the following circumstances: They receive a base on balls (BB). They are hit by a pitch (HBP). They hit a sacrifice fly or a sacrifice bunt (also known as sacrifice hit). They are awarded first base due to interference or obstruction, usually by the catcher. They are replaced by another hitter before their at bat is completed, in which case the plate appearance and any related statistics go to the pinch hitter (unless they are replaced with two strikes and their replacement completes a strikeout, in which case the at bat and strikeout are charged to the first batter). In addition, if the inning ends while they are still at bat (due to the third out being made by a runner caught stealing, for example), no at bat or plate appearance will result. Put shortly, an at bat is a specific type of plate appearance in which the batter puts the ball in play intending to get on base---it is why at bats, and not plate appearances, are used to calculate batting average, as plate appearances in general can result in many outcomes that don't involve putting the ball in play, and batting average specifically measures a batter's contact hitting. Rule 9.02(a)(1) of the official rules of Major League Baseball defines an at bat as: "Number of times batted, except that no time at bat shall be charged when a player: (A) hits a sacrifice bunt or sacrifice fly; (B) is awarded first base on four called balls; (C) is hit by a pitched ball; or (D) is awarded first base because of interference or obstruction[.]" Examples An at bat is counted when: The batter reaches first base on a hit The batter reaches first base on an error The batter is called out for any reason other than a sacrifice There is a fielder's choice Records Pete Rose had 14,053 career at bats, the all-time major league and National League record. The American League record is held by Carl Yastrzemski, whose 11,988 career at bats were all in the AL. The single season record is held by Jimmy Rollins, who had 716 at bats in 2007; Willie Wilson, Ichiro Suzuki and Juan Samuel also had more than 700 at bats in a season. 14 players share the single game record of 11 at bats in a single game, all of which were extra inning games. In games of 9 innings or fewer, the record is 7 at bats and has occurred more than 200 times. The team record for most at bats in a single season is 5,781 by the 1997 Boston Red Sox. At bat as a phrase "At bat", "up", "up at bat", and "at the plate" are all phrases describing a batter who is facing the pitcher. Note that just because a player is described as being "at bat" in this sense, he will not necessarily be given an at bat in his statistics; the phrase actually signifies a plate appearance (assuming it is eventually completed). This ambiguous terminology is usually clarified by context. To refer explicitly to a statistical "at bat", the term "official at bat" is sometimes used. "Time at bat" in the rulebook Official Baseball Rule 5.06(c) provides that "[a] batter has legally completed his time at bat when he is put out or becomes a runner" (emphasis added). The "time at bat" defined in this rule is more commonly referred to as a plate appearance, and the playing rules (Rules 1 through 8) uses the phrase "time at bat" in this sense. In contrast, the scoring rules use the phrase "time at bat" to refer to the statistic at bat, defined in Rule 9.02(a)(1), but sometimes uses the phrase "official time at bat" or refers back to Rule 9.02(a)(1) when mentioning the statistic. The phrase "plate appearance" is used in Rules 9.22 and 9.23 dealing with batting titles and hitting streaks, and in Rule 5.10(g) comment regarding the Three-Batter Minimum: "[t]o qualify as one of three consecutive batters, the batter must complete his plate appearance, which ends only when the batter is put out or becomes a runner." The term is not elsewhere defined in the rulebook. See also Batting order At bats with runners in scoring position Notes References Batting statistics Batting (baseball)
In baseball, an earned run is any run that was fully enabled by the offensive team's production in the face of competent play from the defensive team. Conversely, an unearned run is a run that would not have been scored without the aid of an error or a passed ball committed by the defense. An unearned run counts just as much as any other run for the purpose of determining the score of the game. However, it is "unearned" in that it was, in a sense, "given away" by the defensive team. Both total runs and earned runs are tabulated as part of a pitcher's statistics. However, earned runs are specially denoted because of their use in calculating a pitcher's earned run average (ERA), the number of earned runs allowed by the pitcher per nine innings pitched (i.e., averaged over a regulation game). Thus, in effect, the pitcher is held personally accountable for earned runs, while the responsibility for unearned runs is shared with the rest of the team. To determine whether a run is earned, the official scorer must reconstruct the inning as it would have occurred without errors or passed balls. Details If no errors and no passed balls occur during the inning, all runs scored are automatically earned (assigned responsible to the pitcher(s) who allowed each runner to reach base). Also, in some cases, an error can be rendered harmless as the inning progresses. For example, a runner on first base advances to second on a passed ball and the next batter walks. Since the runner would now have been at second anyway, the passed ball no longer has any effect on the earned/unearned calculation. On the other hand, a batter/runner may make his entire circuit around the bases without the aid of an error, yet the run would be counted as unearned if an error prevented the third out from being made before he crossed the plate to score. An error made by the pitcher in fielding at his position is counted the same as an error by any other player. A run is counted as unearned when: A batter reaches base on an error (including catcher's interference) that would have retired the batter except for the error, and later scores a run in that inning by any means. A batter hits a foul fly ball that is dropped by a fielder for an error, extending the at-bat, and later scores. In this case, the manner in which the batter reached base becomes irrelevant. A baserunner remains on base or advances to the next base as the result of an error on a fielder's choice play that would put the baserunner out except for the error, and later scores. A batter reaches first base on a passed ball (but not a wild pitch) and later scores. A baserunner scores by any means after the third out would have been made except for an error other than catcher's interference. A batter or runner advances one or more bases on an error or passed ball (but not a wild pitch) and scores on a play that would otherwise not have provided the opportunity to score. Under either form of a WBSC tiebreaker in which each half-inning starts with the last one or two batters from the previous inning being placed on either second base (and if two runners, first base) to begin the inning, a run scored by these runners are unearned. If the runners are erased on a fielder's choice which places a batter on base, and the new batter-runner later scores, this would also be an unearned run. This rule was first implemented in WBSC competitions in 2008 and in the World Baseball Classic in 2013, with Major League Baseball adding it in 2020. While the inning is still being played, the second and the second-last scenario can cause a temporary situation where a run has already scored, but its earned/unearned status is not yet certain. Under the last circumstance, for example, with two outs, a runner on third base scores on a passed ball. For the time being, the run is unearned since the runner should still be at third. If the batter strikes out to end the inning, it will stay that way. If the batter gets a base hit, which would have scored the runner anyway, the run now becomes earned. Under the second circumstance, if there are runners on base and a batter hits a foul fly ball that is dropped, and then bats in the runners on base through a base hit (including a home run), the runs are unearned for the time being, as the runners should not have advanced. If the results of the remaining at-bats in the inning would not have scored the runners, the runs remain unearned. However, if results of subsequent at-bats would have scored the runs anyway, the runs would count as earned, unless they only would have scored as a result of a subsequent error or passed ball. A baserunner who reaches on catcher's interference and subsequently scores with two outs scores an unearned run, but baserunners who subsequently score after the runner who has reached on catcher's interference exclusively on clean plays score earned runs; the baserunner cannot be assumed to have been put out except for the error. (2019 MLB Rule 9.16(a)(4)). Neither the use of a pinch-runner to replace a baserunner who represents an unearned run nor the use of a pinch-hitter to continue the turn at bat of a batter who would be out except for an error transforms a run scored by such a person or his successors on base from an unearned run to an earned run. Pitching changes When pitchers are changed in the middle of an inning, and one or more errors have already occurred, it is possible to have a run charged as earned against a specific pitcher, but unearned to the team. The simplest example is when the defensive team records two outs and makes an error on a play that would have been the third out. A new pitcher comes into the game, and the next batter hits a home run. The runner who reached on the error comes around to score, and his run is unearned to both the prior pitcher and the team. However, the run scored by the batter is counted as earned against the relief pitcher, but unearned to the team (since there should have already been three outs). Had the team not switched pitchers, neither run would be counted as an earned run because that pitcher should have already been out of that inning. A pitcher who is relieved mid-inning may be charged with earned runs equal to the number of batters who reached base while he was pitching, even if the specific batters he faced do not score. The batters he put on base may be erased by fielder's choice plays after he has been relieved by another pitcher, but if earned runs are scored in the inning the original pitcher is liable for as many earned runs as the number of batters he put on base. Example: On April 15, 2017, Detroit's Justin Verlander allowed the first two Cleveland batters in the 5th inning to reach base on base hits; Verlander was then relieved by Shane Greene. Greene walked the next batter to load the bases. The next batter hit a grounder and Miguel Cabrera threw home to force out the runner on third in a fielder's choice, so the bases remained loaded with one out. Greene struck out the next batter for the second out. Carlos Santana then hit a single that scored the runners from second and third (only one of whom was put on base by Verlander), and the runner from first was thrown out at the plate to end the inning. Since Verlander allowed two batters to reach base, he was charged with two earned runs, even though only one of the two specific batters he faced actually scored. When a pitching change occurs, the new pitcher is said to "inherit" any runners that are on base at the time, and if they later score, those runs are charged (earned or unearned) to the prior pitcher. Most box scores now list inherited runners, and the number that scored, as a statistic for the relief pitcher. See also Baseball statistics Earned run average Run average References External links Major League Baseball Official Rules Baseball terminology Pitching statistics it:Media PGL
A base on balls (BB), also known as a walk, occurs in baseball when a batter receives four pitches during a plate appearance that the umpire calls balls, and is in turn awarded first base without the possibility of being called out. The base on balls is defined in Section 2.00 of baseball's Official Rules, and further detail is given in 6.08(a). Despite being known as a "walk", it is considered a faux pas for a professional player to literally walk to first base; the batter-runner and any advancing runners normally jog on such a play. The term "base on balls" distinguishes a walk from the other manners in which a batter can be awarded first base without liability to be put out (e.g., hit by pitch (HBP), catcher's interference). Though a base on balls, catcher's interference, or a batter hit by a pitched ball all result in the batter (and possibly runners on base) being awarded a base, the term "walk" usually refers only to a base on balls, and not the other methods of reaching base without the bat touching the ball. An important difference is that for a hit batter or catcher's interference, the ball is dead and no one may advance unless forced; the ball is live after a walk (see below for details). A batter who draws a base on balls is commonly said to have been "walked" by the pitcher. When the batter is walked, runners advance one base without liability to be put out only if forced to vacate their base to allow the batter to take first base. If a batter draws a walk with the bases loaded, all preceding runners are forced to advance, including the runner on third base who is forced to home plate to score a run; when a run is forced on a walk, the batter is credited with a run batted in per rule 9.04. Receiving a base on balls does not count as a hit or an at bat for a batter but does count as a time on base and a plate appearance. Therefore, a base on balls does not affect a player's batting average, but it can increase his on-base percentage. A hit by pitch is not counted statistically as a walk, though the effect is mostly the same, with the batter receiving a free pass to first base. One exception is that on hit-by-pitch, the ball is dead, and any runners attempting to steal on the play must return to their original base unless forced to the next base anyway. When a walk occurs, the ball is still live: any runner not forced to advance may nevertheless attempt to advance at his own risk, which might occur on a steal play, passed ball, or wild pitch. Also, because a ball is live when a base on balls occurs, runners on base forced to advance one base may attempt to advance beyond one base, at their own risk. The batter-runner himself may attempt to advance beyond first base, at his own risk. Rule 6.08 addresses this matter as well. An attempt to advance an additional base beyond the base awarded might occur when ball four is a passed ball or a wild pitch. History In early baseball, there was no concept of a "ball." It was created by the NABBP in 1863, originally as a sort of unsportsmanlike-conduct penalty: "Should the pitcher repeatedly fail to deliver to the striker fair balls, for the apparent purpose of delaying the game, or for any other cause, the umpire, after warning him, shall call one ball, and if the pitcher persists in such action, two and three balls; when three balls shall have been called, the striker shall be entitled to the first base; and should any base be occupied at that time, each player occupying them shall be entitled to one base without being put out." Note that this rule in effect gave the pitcher 9 balls, since each penalty ball could only be called on a third offense. In 1869 the rule was modified so that only those baserunners forced to advance could advance. From 1871 through 1886, the batter was entitled to call "high" or "low," i.e. above or below the waist; a pitch which failed to conform was "unfair." Certain pitches were defined as automatic balls in 1872: any ball delivered over the batter's head, that hit the ground in front of home plate, was delivered to the opposite side from the batter, or came within one foot of him. In 1880, the National League changed the rules so that eight "unfair balls" instead of nine were required for a walk. In 1884, the National League changed the rules so that six balls were required for a walk. In 1886, the American Association changed the rules so that six balls instead of seven were required for a walk; however, the National League changed the rules so that seven balls were required for a walk instead of six. In 1887, the National League and American Association agreed to abide by some uniform rule changes, including, for the first time, a strike zone which defined balls and strikes by rule rather than the umpire's discretion, and decreased the number of balls required for a walk to five. In 1889, the National League and the American Association decreased the number of balls required for a walk to four. In 2017, Major League Baseball approved a rule change allowing for a batter to be walked intentionally by having the defending bench signal to the umpire. The move was met with some controversy. Intentional base on balls A subset of the base on balls, an intentional base on balls (IBB), or intentional walk, is when the defensive team intentionally issues a walk to the batter. In Major League Baseball and many amateur leagues, an intentional base on balls is signaled to the home plate umpire by the defensive team's manager holding up four fingers, at which point the batter is awarded first base without any further pitches being thrown. In some leagues and in Major League Baseball prior to 2017, an intentional base on balls is issued when the pitcher deliberately pitches the ball away from the batter four times (or as many times as needed to get to ball four if the decision to issue the intentional walk is made with one or more balls already on the count). As with any other walk, an intentional walk entitles the batter to first base without liability to be put out, and entitles any runners to advance if forced. Intentional walks are a strategic defensive maneuver, commonly done to bypass one hitter for one the defensive team believes is less likely to initiate a run-scoring play (e.g., a home run, sacrifice fly, or RBI base hit). Teams also commonly use intentional walks to set up a double play or force out situation for the next batter. Major League Baseball leaders Career Single-season Game Jimmie Foxx, Andre Thornton, Jeff Bagwell and Bryce Harper have each been walked six times during a major league regular season game. Among pitchers, Tommy Byrne and Bruno Haas both gave up 16 bases on balls in a game. The most consecutive walks to end a game since at least 1920 (with no outs in between the walks) is five, which occurred when the Los Angeles Dodgers beat the Arizona Diamondbacks in 2019. See also related lists Baseball statistics List of Major League Baseball career bases on balls leaders List of Major League Baseball career total bases leaders List of Major League Baseball career on-base percentage leaders List of Major League Baseball career OPS leaders 3,000 strikeout club List of Major League Baseball career strikeout leaders References External links Career walks leaders, Baseball-Reference.com Single-season walks leaders, Baseball-Reference.com Baseball terminology Baseball pitching Batting (baseball) Pitching statistics Batting statistics
In baseball statistics, total bases (TB) is the number of bases a player has gained with hits. It is a weighted sum for which the weight value is 1 for a single, 2 for a double, 3 for a triple and 4 for a home run. Only bases attained from hits count toward this total. Reaching base by other means (such as a base on balls) or advancing further after the hit (such as when a subsequent batter gets a hit) does not increase the player's total bases. The total bases divided by the number of at bats is the player's slugging average. Hank Aaron is the career leader in total bases with 6,856. Albert Pujols (6,211), Stan Musial (6,134), and Willie Mays (6,080) are the only other players with at least 6,000 career total bases. As of October 2023, no active players are in the top 100 for career total bases. The active leader is Nelson Cruz, in 113th with 3,847. Key List Stats updated as of October 1, 2023. Notes External links Baseball Reference – Career Leaders & Records for Total Bases Total Major League Baseball statistics
In baseball statistics, a hit (denoted by H), also called a base hit, is credited to a batter when the batter safely reaches or passes first base after hitting the ball into fair territory with neither the benefit of an error nor a fielder's choice. Scoring a hit To achieve a hit, the batter must reach first base before any fielder can either tag him with the ball, throw to another player protecting the base before the batter reaches it, or tag first base while carrying the ball. The hit is scored the moment the batter reaches first base safely; if he is put out while attempting to stretch his hit to a double or triple or home run on the same play, he still gets credit for a hit (according to the last base he reached safely on the play). If a batter reaches first base because of offensive interference by a preceding runner (including if a preceding runner is hit by a batted ball), he is also credited with a hit. Types of hits A hit for one base is called a single, for two bases a double, and for three bases a triple. A home run is also scored as a hit. Doubles, triples, and home runs are also called extra base hits. An "infield hit" is a hit where the ball does not leave the infield. Infield hits are uncommon by nature, and most often earned by speedy runners. Pitching a no-hitter A no-hitter is a game in which one of the teams prevented the other from getting a hit. Throwing a no-hitter is rare and considered an extraordinary accomplishment for a pitcher or pitching staff. In most cases in the professional game, no-hitters are accomplished by a single pitcher who throws a complete game. A pitcher who throws a no-hitter could still allow runners to reach base safely, by way of walks, errors, hit batsmen, or batter reaching base due to interference or obstruction. If the pitcher allows no runners to reach base in any manner whatsoever (hit, walk, hit batsman, error, etc.), the no-hitter is a perfect game. 1887 discrepancy In 1887, Major League Baseball counted bases on balls (walks) as hits. The result was skyrocketing batting averages, including some near .500; Tip O'Neill of the St. Louis Browns batted .485 that season, which would still be a major league record if recognized. The experiment was abandoned the following season. There is controversy regarding how the records of 1887 should be interpreted. The number of legitimate walks and at-bats are known for all players that year, so computing averages using the same method as in other years is straightforward. In 1968, Major League Baseball formed a Special Baseball Records Committee to resolve this (and other) issues. The Committee ruled that walks in 1887 should not be counted as hits. In 2000, Major League Baseball reversed its decision, ruling that the statistics which were recognized in each year's official records should stand, even in cases where they were later proven incorrect. Most current sources list O'Neill's 1887 average as .435, as calculated by omitting his walks. He would retain his American Association batting championship. However, the variance between methods results in differing recognition for the 1887 National League batting champion. Cap Anson would be recognized, with his .421 average, if walks are included, but Sam Thompson would be the champion at .372 if they are not. Major League Baseball rules The official rulebook of Major League Baseball states in Rule 10.05: (a) The official scorer shall credit a batter with a base hit when: (1) the batter reaches first base (or any succeeding base) safely on a fair ball that settles on the ground, that touches a fence before being touched by a fielder or that clears a fence; (2) the batter reaches first base safely on a fair ball hit with such force, or so slowly, that any fielder attempting to make a play with the ball has no opportunity to do so; Rule 10.05(a)(2) Comment: The official scorer shall credit a hit if the fielder attempting to handle the ball cannot make a play, even if such fielder deflects the ball from or cuts off another fielder who could have put out a runner. (3) the batter reaches first base safely on a fair ball that takes an unnatural bounce so that a fielder cannot handle it with ordinary effort, or that touches the pitcher's plate or any base (including home plate) before being touched by a fielder and bounces so that a fielder cannot handle the ball with ordinary effort; (4) the batter reaches first base safely on a fair ball that has not been touched by a fielder and that is in fair territory when the ball reaches the outfield, unless in the scorer's judgment the ball could have been handled with ordinary effort; (5) a fair ball that has not been touched by a fielder touches a runner or an umpire, unless a runner is called out for having been touched by an Infield Fly, in which case the official scorer shall not score a hit; or (6) a fielder unsuccessfully attempts to put out a preceding runner and, in the official scorer's judgment, the batter-runner would not have been put out at first base by ordinary effort. Rule 10.05(a) Comment: In applying Rule 10.05(a), the official scorer shall always give the batter the benefit of the doubt. A safe course for the official scorer to follow is to score a hit when exceptionally good fielding of a ball fails to result in a putout. (b) The official scorer shall not credit a base hit when a: (1) runner is forced out by a batted ball, or would have been forced out except for a fielding error; (2) batter apparently hits safely and a runner who is forced to advance by reason of the batter becoming a runner fails to touch the first base to which such runner is advancing and is called out on appeal. The official scorer shall charge the batter with an at-bat but not a hit; (3) pitcher, the catcher or any infielder handles a batted ball and puts out a preceding runner who is attempting to advance one base or to return to his original base, or would have put out such runner with ordinary effort except for a fielding error. The official scorer shall charge the batter with an at-bat but not a hit; (4) fielder fails in an attempt to put out a preceding runner and, in the scorer's judgment, the batter-runner could have been put out at first base; or Rule 10.05(b) Comment: Rule 10.05(b) shall not apply if the fielder merely looks toward or feints toward another base before attempting to make the putout at first base. (5) runner is called out for interference with a fielder attempting to field a batted ball, unless in the scorer's judgment the batter-runner would have been safe had the interference not occurred. See also List of Major League Baseball hit records List of Major League Baseball progressive career hits leaders List of Nippon Professional Baseball career hits leaders List of KBO Career Hits leaders List of Major League Baseball career hits leaders 3,000 hit club References Batting statistics Baseball rules
In baseball statistics, on-base percentage (OBP) measures how frequently a batter reaches base. An official Major League Baseball (MLB) statistic since 1984, it is sometimes referred to as on-base average (OBA), as it is rarely presented as a true percentage. Generally defined as "how frequently a batter reaches base per plate appearance", OBP is specifically calculated as the ratio of a batter's times on base (the sum of hits, bases on balls, and times hit by pitch) to the sum of at bats, bases on balls, hit by pitch, and sacrifice flies. OBP does not credit the batter for reaching base on fielding errors, fielder's choice, uncaught third strikes, fielder's obstruction, or catcher's interference. OBP is added to slugging average (SLG) to determine on-base plus slugging (OPS). The OBP of all batters faced by one pitcher or team is referred to as "on-base against". On-base percentage is calculable for professional teams dating back to the first year of National Association of Professional Base Ball Players competition in 1871, because the component values of its formula have been recorded in box scores ever since. History The statistic was invented in the late 1940s by Brooklyn Dodgers statistician Allan Roth with then-Dodgers general manager Branch Rickey. In 1954, Rickey, who was then the general manager of the Pittsburgh Pirates, was featured in a Life Magazine graphic in which the formula for on-base percentage was shown as the first component of an all-encompassing "offense" equation. However, it was not named as on-base percentage, and there is little evidence that Roth's statistic was taken seriously at the time by the baseball community at large. On-base percentage became an official MLB statistic in 1984. Its perceived importance jumped after the influential 2003 book Moneyball highlighted Oakland Athletics general manager Billy Beane's focus on the statistic. Many baseball observers, particularly those influenced by the field of sabermetrics, now consider on-base percentage superior to the statistic traditionally used to measure offensive skill, batting average, which accounts for hits but ignores other ways a batter can reach base. Overview Traditionally, players with the best on-base percentages bat as leadoff hitter, unless they are power hitters, who traditionally bat slightly lower in the batting order. The league average for on-base percentage in Major League Baseball has varied considerably over time; at its peak in the late 1990s, it was around .340, whereas it was typically .300 during the dead-ball era. On-base percentage can also vary quite considerably from player to player. The highest career OBP of a batter with more than 3,000 plate appearances is .482 by Ted Williams. The lowest is by Bill Bergen, who had an OBP of .194. On-base percentage is calculated using this formula: where H = Hits BB = Bases on Balls (Walks) HBP = Hit By Pitch AB = At bat SF = Sacrifice fly In certain unofficial calculations, the denominator is simplified and replaced by Plate Appearance (PA); however, the calculation PAs includes certain infrequent events that will slightly lower the calculated OBP (i.e. catcher's interference, and sacrifice bunts). Sacrifice bunts are excluded from consideration on the basis that they are usually imposed by the manager with the expectation that the batter will not reach base, and thus do not accurately reflect the batter's ability to reach base when attempting to do so. This is in contrast with the sacrifice fly, which is generally unintentional; the batter was trying for a hit. All-time leaders Single-season leaders See also List of Major League Baseball career on-base percentage leaders Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game Notes References Batting statistics Baseball terminology Percentages
In baseball, a sacrifice fly (sometimes abbreviated to sac fly) is defined by Rule 9.08(d): "Score a sacrifice fly when, before two are out, the batter hits a ball in flight handled by an outfielder or an infielder running in the outfield in fair or foul territory that is caught, and a run scores after the catch, or is dropped, and a runner scores, if in the scorer's judgment the runner could have scored after the catch had the fly ball been caught." They are so named because the batter allows a teammate to score a run, while "sacrificing" his or her ability to do so. They are traditionally recorded in box scores with the designation "SF". Rules As addressed within Rule 9.02(a)(1) of the Official Baseball Rules a sacrifice fly is not counted as a time at bat for the batter, though the batter is credited with a run batted in. The same is true with a bases-loaded walk. The purpose of not counting a sacrifice fly as an at-bat is to avoid penalizing hitters for a successful action. The sacrifice fly is one of two instances in baseball where a batter is not charged with a time at bat after putting a ball in play; the other is the sacrifice hit (also known as a sacrifice bunt). But, while a sacrifice fly does not affect a player's batting average, it counts as a plate appearance and lowers the on-base percentage. A player on a hitting streak will have end it with no official at-bats but a sacrifice fly. Unlike a sacrifice bunt, which may be scored if a runner advances from any base to any base, a sacrifice fly is only credited if a runner scores on the play. Therefore, when a runner on first or second base tags on a fly ball and advances no further than third base, no sacrifice is given and the batter is charged with an at-bat. Also, if a runner tags and advances from second base (or, theoretically, from first base) all the way to home and scores (without an intervening error) the batter is credited with a sacrifice fly, as well as a second RBI if a runner on third also scores. At the professional level this will only typically occur in unusual circumstances that prevent the defense from making an immediate throw back to the infield, such as an outfielder colliding with the wall while making a catch on the warning track. The sacrifice fly is credited even if another runner is put out so long as the run scores. The sacrifice fly is credited on a dropped ball even if another runner is forced out by reason of the batter becoming a runner. On any fly ball, a runner can initiate an attempt to advance bases as soon as a fielder touches the ball by tagging up, even before the fielder has full control of the ball. Records The most sacrifice flies by a team in one game in Major League Baseball (MLB) is five; the record was established by the Seattle Mariners in 1988, tied by the Colorado Rockies in 2006, and tied again by the Mariners in 2008. Five MLB teams have collected three sacrifice flies in an inning: the Chicago White Sox (fifth inning, July 1, 1962 against the Cleveland Indians); the New York Yankees twice (fourth inning, June 29, 2000 against the Detroit Tigers and third inning, August 19, 2000 against the Anaheim Angels); the New York Mets (second inning, June 24, 2005 against the Yankees); and the Houston Astros (seventh inning, June 26, 2005 against the Texas Rangers). In these cases one or more of the flies did not result in a putout due to an error. Since the rule was reinstated in its present form in MLB in 1954, Gil Hodges of the Dodgers holds the record for most sacrifice flies in one season with 19, in 1954; Eddie Murray holds the MLB record for most sacrifice flies in a career with 128. As of the end of the 2021 Major League Baseball season, the ten players who had hit the most sacrifice flies were as follows: Eddie Murray (128) Cal Ripken Jr. (127) Robin Yount (123) Hank Aaron (121) Frank Thomas (121) George Brett (120) Rubén Sierra (120) Rafael Palmeiro (119) Rusty Staub (119) Andre Dawson (118) Only once has the World Series been won on a sac fly. In 1912, Larry Gardner of the Boston Red Sox hit a fly ball off a pitch from the New York Giants' Christy Mathewson. Steve Yerkes tagged up and scored from third base to win game 8 in the tenth inning and take the series for the Red Sox. History Batters have not been charged with a time at-bat for a sacrifice hit since 1893, but baseball has changed the sacrifice fly rule multiple times. The sacrifice fly as a statistical category was instituted in 1908, only to be discontinued in 1931. The rule was again adopted in 1939, only to be eliminated again in 1940, before being adopted for the last time in 1954. For some baseball fans, it is significant that the sacrifice-fly rule was eliminated in 1940 because, in 1941, Ted Williams was hitting .39955 on the last day of the season and needed one hit in a doubleheader against the Philadelphia A's to become the first hitter since Bill Terry in 1930 to hit .400. He got six hits, finishing with an official .406 average, the last player in over 80 years to bat .400 or more in the American or National League. In his book Baseball and Other Matters in 1941 author Robert Creamer, citing estimates, points out that if Williams' 14 at-bats on sacrifice flies that year were deducted from the 456 official at-bats he was charged with, his final average in 1941 would have been .419. References External links MLB Official Rules from the Major League Baseball website Baseball Rules Chronology, from Baseball Library The Sacrifice Fly, from the SABR web site (Research Journals Archive) Baseball plays Batting (baseball)
On-base plus slugging (OPS) is a sabermetric baseball statistic calculated as the sum of a player's on-base percentage and slugging percentage. The ability of a player both to get on base and to hit for power, two important offensive skills, are represented. An OPS of .800 or higher in Major League Baseball puts the player in the upper echelon of hitters. Typically, the league leader in OPS will score near, and sometimes above, the 1.000 mark. Equation The basic equation is where OBP is on-base percentage and SLG is slugging average. These averages are defined below as: - the numerator "H + BB + HBP" effectively means "number of trips to first base at least" - the denominator "AB + BB + SF + HBP" effectively means "total plate appearances", but does not include sacrifice bunts This is because though a batter makes a trip to the plate he is not given an "AB" when he walks (BB or HBP) or when he hits the ball into play and is called out, but the action allows a run to score (SF). As a result, the 4 counts (AB + BB + SF +HBP) are needed to calculate a batter's total trips to the plate. and where: H = hits BB = bases on balls HBP = times hit by pitch AB = at bats SF = sacrifice flies TB = total bases In one equation, OPS can be represented as: History On-base plus slugging was first popularized in 1984 by John Thorn and Pete Palmer's book, The Hidden Game of Baseball. The New York Times then began carrying the leaders in this statistic in its weekly "By the Numbers" box, a feature that continued for four years. Baseball journalist Peter Gammons used and evangelized the statistic, and other writers and broadcasters picked it up. The popularity of OPS gradually spread, and by 2004 it began appearing on Topps baseball cards. OPS was formerly sometimes known as production. For instance, production was included in early versions of Thorn's Total Baseball encyclopedia, and in the Strat-O-Matic Computer Baseball game. This term has fallen out of use. OPS gained popularity because of the availability of its components, OBP and SLG, and that team OPS correlates well with team runs scored. An OPS scale Bill James, in his essay titled "The 96 Families of Hitters" uses seven different categories for classification by OPS: This effectively transforms OPS into a seven-point ordinal scale. Substituting quality labels such as excellent (A), very good (B), good (C), average (D), fair (E), poor (F) and very poor (G) for the A–G categories creates a subjective reference for OPS values. Leaders The top ten Major League Baseball players in lifetime OPS, with at least 3,000 plate appearances , were: Babe Ruth, 1.1636 Ted Williams, 1.1155 Lou Gehrig, 1.0798 Barry Bonds, 1.0512 Jimmie Foxx, 1.0376 Hank Greenberg, 1.0169 Rogers Hornsby, 1.0103 Manny Ramirez, 0.9960 Mike Trout, 0.9941 Aaron Judge, 0.9824 The top four were all left-handed batters. Jimmie Foxx has the highest career OPS for a right-handed batter. The top ten single-season performances in MLB are (all left-handed hitters): Barry Bonds, 1.4217 () Barry Bonds, 1.3807 () Babe Ruth, 1.3791 () Barry Bonds, 1.3785 () Babe Ruth, 1.3586 () Babe Ruth, 1.3089 () Ted Williams, 1.2875 () Barry Bonds, 1.2778 () Babe Ruth, 1.2582 () Ted Williams, 1.2566 () The highest single-season mark for a right-handed hitter was 1.2449 by Rogers Hornsby in , 13th on the all-time list. Since 1935, the highest single-season OPS for a right-hander is 1.2224 by Mark McGwire in , which was 16th all-time. Adjusted OPS (OPS+) OPS+, adjusted OPS, is a closely related statistic. OPS+ is OPS adjusted for the park and the league in which the player played. An OPS+ of 100 is defined to be the league average. An OPS+ of 150 or more is excellent and 125 very good, while an OPS+ of 75 or below is poor. The basic equation for OPS+ is where *lgOBP is the park adjusted OBP of the league (not counting pitchers hitting) and *lgSLG is the park adjusted SLG of the league. A common misconception is that OPS+ closely matches the ratio of a player's OPS to that of their league. In fact, due to the additive nature of the two components in OPS+, a player with an OBP and SLG both 50% better than league average in those metrics will have an OPS+ of 200 (twice the league average OPS+) while still having an OPS that is only 50% better than the average OPS of the league. It would be a better (although not exact) approximation to say that a player with an OPS+ of 150 produces 50% more runs, in a given set of plate appearances, as a player with an OPS+ of 100 (though see clarification above, under "History"). Leaders in OPS+ Through the end of the 2019 season, the career top twenty leaders in OPS+ (minimum 3,000 plate appearances) were: Babe Ruth, 206 Ted Williams, 190 Barry Bonds, 182 Lou Gehrig, 179 Mike Trout, 176 Rogers Hornsby, 175 Mickey Mantle, 172 Dan Brouthers, 171 Joe Jackson, 170 Ty Cobb, 168 Pete Browning, 163 Jimmie Foxx, 163 Mark McGwire, 163 Dave Orr, 162 Stan Musial, 159 Hank Greenberg, 158 Johnny Mize, 158 Tris Speaker, 157 Dick Allen, 156 Willie Mays, 156 Frank Thomas 156 The only purely right-handed batters to appear on this list are Browning, Hornsby, Foxx, Orr, Trout, McGwire, Allen, Mays, and Thomas. Mantle is the only switch-hitter in the group. The highest single-season performances were: Barry Bonds, 268 () Barry Bonds, 263 () Barry Bonds, 259 () Fred Dunlap, 258 (1884) * Babe Ruth, 256 () Babe Ruth, 239 () Babe Ruth, 239 () Ted Williams, 235 () Ted Williams, 233 () Ross Barnes, 231 (1876) ** Barry Bonds, 231 () * - Fred Dunlap's historic 1884 season came in the Union Association, which some baseball experts consider not to be a true major league. ** - Ross Barnes may have been aided by a rule that made a bunt fair if it first rolled in fair territory. He did not play nearly so well when this rule was removed, although injuries may have been mostly to blame, as his fielding statistics similarly declined. If Dunlap's and Barnes's seasons were to be eliminated from the list, two other Ruth seasons (1926 and 1927) would be on the list. This would also eliminate the only two right-handed batters in the list. Criticism Despite its simple calculation, OPS is a controversial measurement. OPS weighs on-base percentage and slugging percentage equally. However, on-base percentage correlates better with scoring runs. Statistics such as wOBA build on this distinction using linear weights. Additionally, the components of OPS are not typically equal (league-average slugging percentages are usually 75–100 points higher than league-average on-base percentages). As a point of reference, the OPS for all of Major League Baseball in 2019 was .758. See also Sabermetrics Gross production average Notes References Batting statistics
In baseball, a player is credited with a plate appearance (denoted by PA) each time he completes a turn batting. Under Rule 5.04(c) of the Official Baseball Rules, a player completes a turn batting when he is put out or becomes a runner. This happens when he strikes out or is declared out before reaching first base; or when he reaches first base safely or is awarded first base (by a base on balls, hit by pitch, catcher's interference, or obstruction); or when he hits a fair ball which causes a preceding runner to be put out for the third out before he himself is put out or reaches first base safely (see also left on base, fielder's choice, force play). A very similar baseball statistic, at bats, counts a subset of plate appearances that end under certain circumstances. Use as batting record qualifier At bats - rather than plate appearances - are used to calculate batting averages, slugging percentages. However, starting in 1957, at season's end a player must have accumulated 3.1 times the number of games scheduled for each team (502 plate appearances for a 162-game season) during a season to be ranked as a league-leader in certain statistical categories. For example, Player A gets 100 hits in 400 at bats over 510 plate appearances, which works out to a .250 batting average (equivalent to one hit in every four at-bats). Alternatively, Player B gets 110 hits in 400 at bats over 490 plate appearances during the same season, finishing with a .275 batting average. Player B, even though he had the same amount of at bats as Player A and even though his batting average is higher, will not be eligible for certain percentage-based season-ending rankings because he did not accumulate the required 502 plate appearances, while Player A did and therefore will be eligible. There is, however, an exception: Exception for batting titles Rule 9.22(a) of the Official Baseball Rules make a single allowance to the minimum requirement of 502 plate appearances for the purposes of determining the batting, slugging or on-base percentage title. If a player: leads the league in one of the statistics; does not have the required 502 plate appearances; and would still lead the league in that statistic if as many at bats (without hits or reaching base) were added to his records as necessary to meet the requirement, he will win that title, but with his original statistic (before the extra at bats were added). In the example above, Player B is 12 plate appearances short of the required 502, but were he be charged with 12 additional unproductive at bats, he would go 110-for-412 for a batting average of .267. If no one else has a batting average (similarly modified if appropriate) higher than .267, player B will be awarded the batting title (with his original batting average of .275) despite the lack of 502 plate appearances. In a real-life example, in 2012, Melky Cabrera, then of the San Francisco Giants, finished the season with a league-high .346 batting average, but he had only 501 plate appearances, one short of the required 502. Per the rule, he would have won the batting title because after an extra at bat is added and his batting average recalculated, he still would have led the league in batting average. Cabrera's case, however, turned out differently. The reason Cabrera finished the season with only 501 at bats was because he was suspended in mid-August when he tested positive for illegal performance-enhancing drugs. Cabrera was still eligible for that extra plate appearance, but he requested that the extra plate appearance not be added to his total, and that he not be considered for the batting crown, because he admitted that his use of performance-enhancing drugs had given him an unfair advantage over other players. As a result, Cabrera's name is nowhere to be found on the list of 2012 National League batting leaders. Scoring A batter is not credited with a plate appearance if, while batting, a preceding runner is put out on the basepaths for the third out in a way other than by the batter putting the ball into play (i.e., picked off, caught stealing). In this case, the same batter continues his turn batting in the next inning with no balls or strikes against him. A batter is not credited with a plate appearance if, while batting, the game ends as the winning run scores from third base on a balk, stolen base, wild pitch or passed ball. A batter may or may not be credited with a plate appearance (and possibly at bat) in the rare instance when he is replaced by a pinch hitter after having already started his turn at bat. Under Rule 9.15(b), the pinch hitter would receive the plate appearance (and potential of an at-bat) unless the original batter is replaced when having 2 strikes against him and the pinch hitter subsequently completes the strikeout, in which case the plate appearance and at-bat are charged to the first batter. Relation to at bat Under Official Baseball Rule 9.02(a)(1), an at bat results from a completed plate appearance, unless the batter: hits a sacrifice bunt or sacrifice fly; or is awarded first base on four called balls; or is hit by a pitched ball; or is awarded first base because of interference or obstruction. In common parlance, the term "at bat" is sometimes used to mean "plate appearance" (for example, "he fouled off the ball to keep the at bat alive"). The intent is usually clear from the context, although the term "official at bat" is sometimes used to explicitly refer to an at bat as distinguished from a plate appearance. However, terms such as turn at bat or time at bat are synonymous with plate appearance. "Time at bat" in the rulebook Official Baseball Rule 5.06(c) provides that "[a] batter has legally completed his time at bat when he is put out or becomes a runner" (emphasis added). The "time at bat" defined in this rule is more commonly referred to as a plate appearance, and the playing rules (Rules 1 through 8) uses the phrase "time at bat" in this sense (e.g. Rule 5.04(a)(3), which states that "[t]he first batter in each inning after the first inning shall be the player whose name follows that of the last player who legally completed his time at bat in the preceding inning" (emphasis added)). In contrast, the scoring rules uses the phrase "time at bat" to refer to the statistic at bat, defined in Rule 9.02(a)(1), but sometimes uses the phrase "official time at bat" or refers back to Rule 9.02(a)(1) when mentioning the statistic. The phrase "plate appearance" is used in Rules 9.22 and 9.23 dealing with batting titles and hitting streaks, and in Rule 5.10(g) Comment in relation to the Three-Batter Minimum: "[t]o qualify as one of three consecutive batters, the batter must complete his plate appearance, which ends only when the batter is put out or becomes a runner." (emphasis added) The term is not elsewhere defined in the rulebook. In on-base percentage Plate appearances are a primary component in calculating on-base percentage (OBP), an alternative measurement of a player's offensive performance, but are not the only one in determining its denominator. By rule, certain plate appearances, such as times reached base via either catcher's interference or fielder's obstruction or sacrifice bunts, are excluded from it, leaving the denominator determined instead as the sum of at-bats, walks, hit-by-pitches, and sacrifice flies. And the numerator represented by a batter's times on base (composed of the sum of hits, base on balls, and times hit by pitch). Other uses Plate appearances are used by scorers for "proving" a box score. Under Rule 9.03(c), the following two items should be equal for each team, because each is equal to the team's total number of plate appearances: The sum of the team's at bats, walks, hit by pitches, sacrifices (both bunts and flies), and times awarded first base on interference or obstruction. The sum of the team's runs, runners left on base, and men put out. Major League Baseball leaders References Batting statistics
Games played (GP) is a statistic used in team sports to indicate the total number of games in which a player has participated (in any capacity); the statistic is generally applied irrespective of whatever portion of the game is contested. Baseball In baseball, the statistic applies to players, who prior to a game, are included on a starting lineup card or are announced as an ex ante substitute, whether or not they play. For pitchers only, the statistic games pitched is used. A notable example of the application of the above rule is pitcher Larry Yount, who suffered an injury while throwing warmup pitches after being summoned as a reliever in a Major League Baseball (MLB) game on September 15, 1971. He did not face a batter, but was credited with an appearance because he had been announced as a substitute. Yount never appeared in (or actually played in) any other MLB game. Association football In association football, a game played is counted if a player is in the starting 11, or if a reserve player enters the game before full-time. See also Major League Baseball consecutive games played streaks List of NHL players with 500 consecutive games played References Baseball statistics
Boogie Down Productions (BDP) was an American hip hop group originally composed of KRS-One, D-Nice, and DJ Scott La Rock. DJ Scott La Rock was murdered on August 27, 1987, five months after the release of BDP's debut album, Criminal Minded. The name of the group, Boogie Down, derives from a nickname for the South Bronx section of New York City. The group pioneered the fusion of dancehall reggae and hip hop music and their debut LP Criminal Minded contained frank descriptions of life in the South Bronx during the late 1980s, thus setting the stage for what would eventually become gangsta rap. Members BDP's membership changed throughout its existence, the only constant being KRS-One. The group was founded by KRS-One and DJ Scott La Rock, with producer Lee Smith, who was essential in the production of the songs on Criminal Minded, being added as a member shortly after. From those beginnings, BDP members and collaborators included Ced Gee of Ultramagnetic MC's, Lee Smith, Scott La Rock, D-Nice, Henry Wilkerson PoppyDa, Kenny Parker (KRS-One's younger brother), Just-Ice, ICU, McBoo, Ms. Melodie, Heather B., Scottie Morris, Tony Rahsan, Willie D., RoboCop, Harmony, DJ Red Alert, Jay Kramer, D-Square, Rebekah Foster, Scott Whitehill, Scott King, Chris Tait and Sidney Mills. BDP as a group essentially ended because KRS-One began recording and performing under his own name rather than the group name. Lee Smith, who has co-producer credit on the original 12" "South Bronx" single, was the first to be jettisoned by KRS-One and the future new label after Scott's death. In the liner notes on BDP's 1992 album Sex and Violence, KRS-One writes: "BDP in 1992 is KRS-One, Willie D, and Kenny Parker! BDP is not D-Nice, Jamal-Ski, Harmony, Ms. Melodie, and Scottie Morris. They are not down with BDP so stop frontin'." Steve "Flash" Juon of RapReviews.com claimed that this initiated the ultimate breakup of the group. Cultural influences and impact "The Bridge Wars" A conflict arose in the late 1980s concerning the origins of hip-hop, and BDP made conscious efforts in its early work to establish its interpretation of the issue. The origins of hip-hop to many, including BDP, are believed to be from the Bronx. A rival hip-hop collective, known as the Juice Crew's lyrics, were misunderstood to contain a claim in the song "The Bridge" that hip hop was directly a result of artists originating from Queensbridge. Boogie Down and KRS retorted angrily with songs such as "The Bridge is Over" and "South Bronx," which started one of the first notable hip hop wars as MC Shan, Marley Marl, Roxanne Shanté and Blaq Poet all released songs featuring verses personally attacking KRS and Scott La Rock. But the Bridge Wars were short-lived, and after Scott La Rock's death, KRS began to concentrate on socially conscious music. While Criminal Minded contained vivid descriptions of South Bronx street life, BDP changed after Scott's death. Lee Smith was dropped and KRS-One adopted the Teacha moniker and made a deliberate attempt at creating politically and socially conscious hip-hop. BDP was influential in provoking political and social consciousness in hip-hop, for example in "Stop The Violence" on 1988's By All Means Necessary. Jamaican inspirations The Jamaican influence in Criminal Minded is well illustrated by the use of the "Mad Mad" or "Diseases" riddim started in 1981 with reggae star Yellowman's song "Zunguzung." BDP used this riff in the song "Remix for P is Free," and it was later resampled by artists such as Black Star and dead prez. As an album regarded by many as the start of the gangsta rap movement, Criminal Minded played an important role in reaffirming the social acceptance of having Jamaican roots. BDP referenced reggae in a way that helped to solidify Jamaica's place in modern hip-hop culture. Political and social activism From its start, BDP affected the development of hip-hop and gave a sincere voice to the reality of life in the South Bronx, a section of New York City clouded with poverty and crime. With Criminal Minded, the group combined the sounds of LaRock's harsh, spare, reggae-influenced beats and KRS-One's long-winded rhyme style on underground classics such as "9mm Goes Bang" and "South Bronx," the album's gritty portrait of life on the streets (as well as the firearms that adorned its cover) influenced the gangsta rap movement that began in earnest two years later. BDP's influence in the creation and development of gangsta rap highlights the cultural significance and impact of the type of music BDP and other early hip-hop artists like it created. This subgenre of hip-hop is most closely associated with hard-core hip-hop and is widely misinterpreted as promoting violence and gang activity. This misinterpretation or stigma is closely related to Boogie Down Productions and the general purpose behind their underlying themes of violence. For instance, the cover art of Criminal Minded displays the two artists in the group brandishing drawn guns and displaying other firearms. This is not an encouragement of the violence described in BDP's music, but a portrayal of the violence in the South Bronx as a means of expression, escape, and even condemnation. This album art is not meant to advocate violence but to challenge the conception of a criminal, to assert that those who are really criminally minded are those who hold power. BDP's music became significantly more politically astute after Scott La Rock's death. KRS-One published four more albums under the title Boogie Down Productions, and each was increasingly innovative and expanded from the thuggish imagery of Criminal Minded, exploring themes like black-on-black crime and black radicalism, using a riff on the words of Malcolm X, "by any means necessary", which became the title of the second BDP album, and remains one of the most political hip-hop albums to date. It was in this album that KRS defined himself as the "teacha" or "teacher", symbolizing his emphasis on educating his audience members and fans about relevant social issues surrounding the African-American experience. During his time in association with Boogie Down Productions, KRS-One joined other rappers to create the Stop the Violence Movement, which addressed many of the issues brought up in BDP's music and is the most conscious effort displayed by KRS-One and BDP of political activism and engagement. The movement created the single "Self-Destruction" in 1989 through the collaboration of BDP (KRS-One, D-Nice & Ms. Melodie), Stetsasonic (Delite, Daddy-O, Wise, and Frukwan), Kool Moe Dee, MC Lyte, Doug E. Fresh, Just-Ice, Heavy D, Biz Markie, and Public Enemy (Chuck D & Flavor Flav), with the aim of spreading awareness about violence in African-American and hip-hop communities. All proceeds from this effort went to the National Urban League. Discography Studio albums Criminal Minded (1987) By All Means Necessary (1988) Ghetto Music: The Blueprint of Hip Hop (1989) Edutainment (1990) Sex and Violence (1992) References Bibliography "KRS-One." Africana: The Encyclopedia of the African and African American Experience, Second Edition. Ed. Kwame Anthony Appiah, Henry Louis Gates Jr. New York: Oxford UP, 2008. Oxford African American Studies Center. External links Myspace Official Music: Boogie Down Productions African-American musical groups Hip hop collectives Hip hop groups from New York City Jive Records artists Musical groups established in 1985 Musical groups disestablished in 1992 Musical trios from New York (state) Hardcore hip hop groups 1985 establishments in New York City Musical groups from the Bronx
BCD may refer to: Computing Binary-coded decimal, a representation of decimal digits in binary BCD (character encoding), a 6-bit superset of binary-coded decimal derived from the binary encoding of the same name Boot Configuration Data, the configuration data required to boot Microsoft Windows Vista and later Bipolar-CMOS-DMOS, a type of BiCMOS semiconductor technology Organisations Basnahira Cricket Dundee, a Sri Lankan cricket team BCD Tofu House, a Los Angeles-based Korean restaurant chain BCD Travel, a provider of global corporate travel management Belarusian Christian Democracy, a Christian-democratic political party in Belarus. Berkshire Country Day School, an independent school in Lenox, Massachusetts, US Bid Closing Date The closing date for a bid is a specific date (and usually a specific time) when the bid is closed to the public for bid submissions. At this point, only the submitted proposals will be considered eligible. The British Columbia Dragoons, a Canadian Forces armoured regiment Places Bacolod–Silay International Airport (IATA code), Silay City, Philippines Beirut Central District, Beirut, Lebanon Other uses Bad conduct discharge, a form of discharge from US military service, sometimes referred to colloquially as a "big chicken dinner". Barrels per calendar day, a unit for measuring output of oil refineries Blue compact dwarf galaxy, a small galaxy which contains large clusters of young, hot, massive stars Board-certified diplomate, in the list of credentials in psychology Buoyancy control device, in scuba diving Bolt circle diameter, for example, of a crankset, of a bicycle disc brake, or in wheel sizing "Behind closed doors", a marketing term for previewing a product to a select audience See also BCD in the sugar baby/sugar daddy (SBSD) community means Behind Closed Doors. BCDS (disambiguation)
Binary may refer to: Science and technology Mathematics Binary number, a representation of numbers using only two digits (0 and 1) Binary function, a function that takes two arguments Binary operation, a mathematical operation that takes two arguments Binary relation, a relation involving two elements Binary-coded decimal, a method for encoding for decimal digits in binary sequences Finger binary, a system for counting in binary numbers on the fingers of human hands Computing Binary code, the digital representation of text and data Bit, or binary digit, the basic unit of information in computers Binary file, composed of something other than human-readable text Executable, a type of binary file that contains machine code for the computer to execute Binary tree, a computer tree data structure in which each node has at most two children Astronomy Binary star, a star system with two stars in it Binary planet, two planetary bodies of comparable mass orbiting each other Binary asteroid, two asteroids orbiting each other Biology Binary fission, the splitting of a single-celled organism into two daughter cells Chemistry Binary phase, a chemical compound containing two different chemical elements Arts and entertainment Binary (comics), a superheroine in the Marvel Universe Binary (Doctor Who audio) Music Binary form, a way of structuring a piece of music Binary (Ani DiFranco album), 2017 Binary (Kay Tse album), 2008 "Binary" (song), a 2007 single by Assemblage 23 Novel Binary (novel), a 1972 novel by Michael Crichton (writing as John Lange) Binary, an evil organization in the novel InterWorld Other uses Binary opposition, polar opposites, often ignoring the middle ground Gender binary, the classification of sex and gender into two distinct and disconnected forms of masculine and feminine See also Binary logic (disambiguation) Binomial (disambiguation) Boolean (disambiguation) Secondary (disambiguation) Ternary (disambiguation) Unary (disambiguation)
Bumin Qaghan (, also known as Illig Qaghan (Chinese: 伊利可汗, Pinyin: Yīlì Kèhán, Wade–Giles: i-li k'o-han) or Yamï Qaghan (, died 552 AD) was the founder of the Turkic Khaganate. He was the eldest son of Ashina Tuwu (吐務 / 吐务). He was the chieftain of the Turks under the sovereignty of Rouran Khaganate. He is also mentioned as Tumen (, , commander of ten thousand) of the Rouran Khaganate. Early life and reign According to History of Northern Dynasties and Zizhi Tongjian, in 545 Tumen's tribe started to rise and frequently invaded the western frontier of Wei. The chancellor of Western Wei, Yuwen Tai, sent An Nuopanto (安諾盤陀, Nanai-Banda, a Sogdian from Bukhara,) as an emissary to the Göktürk chieftain Tumen, in an attempt to establish a commercial relationship. In 546, Tumen paid tribute to the Western Wei state. In that same year, Tumen put down a revolt of the Tiele tribes against the Rouran Khaganate, their overlords. Following this, Tumen felt entitled to request of the Rouran a princess as his wife. The Rouran khagan, Anagui, sent a message refusing this request and adding: "You are my blacksmith slave. How dare you utter these words?" Bumin got angry, killed Anagui's emissary, and severed relations with the Rouran Khaganate. Anagui's "blacksmith" (鍛奴 / 锻奴, Pinyin: duàn nú, Wade–Giles: tuan-nu) insult was recorded in Chinese chronicles. Some sources state that members of the Tujue did serve blacksmiths for the Rouran elite, and that "blacksmith slavery" may refer to a kind of vassalage that prevailed in Rouran society. Nevertheless, after this incident Bumin emerged as the leader of the revolt against Rouran. In 551, Bumin requested a Western Wei princess in marriage. Yuwen Tai permitted it and sent Princess Changle(長樂公主) of Western Wei to Bumin. In the same year when Emperor Wen of Western Wei died, Bumin sent mission and gave two hundred horses. The beginning of formal diplomatic relations with China propped up Bumin's authority among the Turks. He eventually united the local Turkic tribes and threw off the yoke of the Rouran domination. In 552 Bumin's army defeated Anagui's forces at the north of Huaihuang and then Anagui committed suicide. With their defeat Bumin proclaimed himself "Illig Qaghan" and made his wife qaghatun. "Illig" means Ilkhan (i.e. ruler of people) in Old Turkic. According to the Bilge Qaghan's memorial complex and the Kul Tigin's memorial complex, Bumin and Istemi ruled people by Turkic laws and they developed them. Death and family Bumin died within several months after proclaiming himself Illig Qaghan. He was married to Princess Changle of Western Wei. Issue: Ashina Keluo (阿史那科罗) - Issig Qaghan Ashina Qijin (阿史那俟斤) - Muqan Qaghan Taspar Qaghan Ashina Kutou (阿史那庫頭) - Ditou Qaghan (appointed by Muqan Qaghan to be lesser khagan of eastern wing of Turkic Empire) Mahan Tigin - Lesser khagan appointed by Taspar Qaghan Rudan Qaghan (褥但可汗) Böri Qaghan (步離可汗) - Lesser khagan of appointed by Taspar Qaghan Legacy He was succeeded by his younger brother Istemi in the western part and by his son Issik Qaghan in the eastern part. In less than one century, his khaganate expanded to comprise most of Central Asia. Notes References 552 deaths Göktürk khagans 6th-century monarchs in Asia Year of birth unknown Ashina house of the Turkic Empire Founding monarchs Leaders who took power by coup Rouran
Bilge Qaghan (; ; 683 – 25 November 734) was the fourth Qaghan of the Second Turkic Khaganate. His accomplishments were described in the Orkhon inscriptions. Names As was the custom, his personal name and the name after assuming the title Qaghan were different. His personal name was recorded in Chinese characters as (). His name after assuming the title was Bilgä Qaγan. (, ). Early years He was born in 683, in the early years of the khaganate. He campaigned alongside his father from early childhood. He was created as Tardush shad and given command over the western wing of the empire in 697 by Qapaghan. He managed to annihilate Wei Yuanzhong's army in 701 with his brother. He also reconquered Basmyl tribes in 703. He also subdued Yenisei Kyrgyz forces in 709, after their disobedience had to reconquer and kill their Qaghan in 710. He killed Türgesh khagan Suoge at Battle of Bolchu. In later years of Qapaghan, he had to fight four battles in a year starting from 714, resubduing tribes and nearly was killed in an ambush from Uyghur forces in 716. Reign In 716, Qapaghan Qaghan, the second Qaghan, was killed in his campaign against the Toquz Oghuz alliance and his severed head was sent to Chang'an. Although his son Inel Khagan succeeded him, Bilgä's brother Kul Tigin and Tonyukuk carried out a coup d'état against Inel Qaghan. They killed him and made him Bilgä Qaghan. His name literally means "wise king". He appointed his brother Kul Tigin to be Left Wise Prince, which made second most powerful person in realm. He re-subdued Huige in 716. He also appointed his father-in-law Tonyukuk to be Master Strategist. New reforms and stabilization of the regime, caused tribes that fled Tujue to come back. Tang chancellor Wang Jun, believing that the Göktürks who surrendered would try to flee back to the Göktürk state, suggested that they be forcibly moved into the heart of the empire to prevent them from doing so. Before Wang's suggestion could be acted upon, however, there was an uprising by the Göktürks who surrendered, under the leadership of Xiedie Sitai (𨁂跌思泰) and Axilan (阿悉爛). Xue and Wang tried to intercept them and dealt them defeats, but they were able to flee back to the Göktürk state anyway. This defeat led to Xue Ne's retirement. Religious policy At some point in his life, he thought about converting to Buddhism and settling in cities. However, Tonyukuk discouraged him from this, citing the Turks' few numbers and vulnerability to Chinese attacks. While the Turks' power rested on their mobility, conversion to Buddhism would bring pacifism among the population. Therefore, sticking to Tengrism was necessary for survival. Later reign In 720, Wang believed that the Pugu (僕固) and Xiedie tribes of the region were planning to defect to Eastern Tujue and attack with Eastern Tujue troops. He thus held a feast and invited the chieftains, and, at the feast, massacred them. He then attacked the Pugu and Xiedie tribes in the area, nearly wiping them out. He then proposed a plan to attack Qaghan along with the Baximi, Xi, and Khitan. Emperor Xuanzong also recruited Qapaghan Khagan's sons Bilgä Tigin and Mo Tigin, Yenisei Kyrgyz Qaghan Kutluk Bilgä Qaghan and Huoba Guiren to fight against Tujue. Tonyukuk cunningly launched first attack on Baximi in 721 autumn, completely crushing them. Meanwhile, Bilgä raided Gansu, taking much of the livestock. Later that year Khitans, next year Xi were also crushed. In 726, his father-in-law and chancellor Tonyukuk died. In 727, he sent Buyruk Chor () as en emissary to Xuanzong to send 30 horses as gift. He also alarmed him of Me Agtsom's proposal of anti-Tang alliance. This alarm proved to be true when Tibetan general We Tadra Khonglo invaded Tang China in 727, sacked Guazhou (瓜州, in modern Gansu), Changle (常樂, in south of modern Guazhou County), Changmenjun (長門軍, in north of modern Yumen) and Anxi (安西, modern Lintan). On 27 February 731, Kul Tigin died, for which Qaghan mourned and ordered a great funeral ceremony. In 733, he defeated rebellious Khitan tribes. Death Just after sending an emissary to Xuanzong to gain heqin alliance, he was poisoned by Buyruk Chor. He did not die immediately and he had time to punish the family of Buyruk Chor with death. He died on 25 November 734, his burial ceremony took place on 22 June 735. Family He was married to El Etmish Bilge Khatun, Tonyukuk's daughter. He had several children: Ashina Yiran (阿史那伊然) Ashina Kutluk (阿史那骨咄) 2 unnamed sons who both became puppet Qaghans under Kutluk Yabgu Khagan A daughter who was married to Suluk Po Beg - submitted to Tang after 744. Legacy After his death from poisoning, several steles were erected in the capital area by the Orkhon River. These Orkhon inscriptions are the first known texts in the Old Turkic language. In popular culture Bilge Qaghan is portrayed by Kang Jae-ik in the 2006-2007 KBS TV series Dae Jo Yeong. See also Silver Deer of Bilge Khan References Sources Encyclopædia Britannica, Micropaedia, Vol. II, pp. 16–17 External links Bilge Kagan Inscriptions complete text The National Museum of Mongolian History: The early Turk Empire and the Uighurs 680s births 734 deaths Deaths by poisoning Göktürk khagans Ashina house of the Turkic Empire 8th-century monarchs in Asia Leaders who took power by coup Tengrist monarchs
Barb Wire is a fictional character appearing in Comics Greatest World, an imprint of Dark Horse Comics. Created by Chris Warner and Team CGW, the character first appeared in Comics' Greatest World: Steel Harbor in 1993. The original Barb Wire series published nine issues between 1994 and 1995 and was followed by a four-issue miniseries in 1996. A reboot was published in 2015 and lasted eight issues. In 1996, the character was adapted into a film starring Pamela Anderson. Unlike the comics, the film takes place in a possible future rather than an alternate version of present-day Earth. Creators Regular series 1: John Arcudi, writer/ Lee Moder, pencils/Ande Parks, inks 2–3: Arcudi, writer/ Dan Lawlis, pencils/Parks, inks 4–5: Arcudi, writer/Lawlis, pencils/Ian Akin, inks 6–7: Arcudi, writer/Mike Manley, pencils/Parks, inks 8: Arcudi, writer/ Andrew Robinson, pencils/ Jim Royal, inks 9: Anina Bennett & Paul Guinan, writers/ Robert Walker, pencils/Jim Royal, inks Ace of Spades miniseries 1–4: Chris Warner, script and pencils/Tim Bradstreet, inks Fictional character biography Barb Wire's stories take place on an alternate version of present-day Earth with superhumans and more advanced technology. In this Earth's history, an alien entity called the Vortex arrived in 1931 and began conducting secret experiments. In 1947, an atom bomb test detonated in a desert nearby the alien's experiments. The result was the creation of a trans-dimensional wormhole referred to as "the Vortex" or "the Maelstrom", which released energy that gave different people across Earth superpowers for years to come. Decades later, Barbara Kopetski grows up in Steel Harbor when it is still a thriving steel industry city. Barbara and her brother Charlie live with their grandmother and parents, their mother being a police officer while their father is a former marine who became a steelworker. Officer Kopetski later dies, after which her husband becomes so ill he is confined to a bed for years, developing Alzheimer's disease as well before passing away. Following the death of her father, Barbara leaves Steel Harbour for a time as the city's economy starts to spiral and crime begins rising. Soon, much of the city is controlled by warring gangs rather than local government. Years later, Barbara returns to Steel Harbor, now an experienced bounty hunter operating under the name Barb Wire. Reuniting with Charlie, she decides to stay in her hometown, becoming the owner of the Hammerhead bar. To help bring in money, she continues moonlighting as a bounty hunter, working with the police directly or bail bondsman Thomas Crashell. As time goes on, Steel Harbor becomes more dangerous, described as "a city under siege from drugs, crime, pollution and gang warfare". In 1993, a second American Civil War begins when Golden City announces its secession from the Union. The announcement leads to protests and riots in several cities. The Steel Harbor Riots leave some neighborhoods in literal ruin, with hundreds of buildings destroyed or abandoned in the area known as "Metal City". Many are forced to leave the city or take to the streets, and the gangs (all of whom have superhuman members) start moving to take more control. To help contain the chaos and keep her home from descending further, Barb Wire now acts at times as a vigilante, intervening when the police can't or won't. Fighting alongside the Wolf Gang, she defies criminal Mace Blitzkrieg's attempts to bring all gangs under his leadership and control the city. Growing up with a police officer mother and marine father, as well as her life experiences traveling outside of the city, Barb Wire is an excellent hand-to-hand combatant, skilled in various firearms, and an expert driver and motorcycle rider. Her bar has been considered neutral meeting ground by the Steel Harbor gangs. Aiding her bounty hunter activities is her brother Charlie, acting as her mechanic and engineer, and others such as Avram Roman Jr., a cyborg sometimes known simply as "the Machine". Though she has loyal allies, including Charlie, Barb Wire is a harsh, guarded person who looks at the world with suspicion and cynicism, considering herself a loner at heart. Other characters Supporting characters Charlie Kopetski, Barb's brother, a blind mechanic, and engineering genius. He invents and maintains most of her weapons and superhuman restraining devices. He openly complains about how often he must fix the equipment she continuously breaks during her adventures. Allies The Machine, real name: Avram Roman Jr. A man whose body is inhabited by a self-repairing machine colony, making him an advanced cyborg. Along with a reinforced skeleton, superhuman strength and enhanced durability, he is capable of rebuilding parts of his body. Over time, he becomes more machine-like in nature, no longer requiring food. Motörhead, real name: Frank Fletcher. A drifter with psychic powers who is bonded to an ancient, powerful artifact known as the Motor. Wolf Gang, a group that believe gangs shouldn't go too far in their activities and victimize the city, and prefer independence and a balance of power rather than uniting all gangs under one leader. The Wolf Gang is formidable and its members are known for discipline and loyalty. The gang includes five superhumans: Burner (fire abilities); Bomber (creates energy bombs); Breaker (superhuman strength); Cutter (energy blades); and their leader Wolf Ferrell, also known as Hunter (enhanced senses). Ghost, real name: Elisa Cameron. A popular Dark Horse Comics character with ghost-like abilities who has a brief crossover story with Barb Wire. Enemies The Prime Movers, a collective of street gang leaders who agree to serve under the leadership of superhumanly strong criminal Mace Blitzkrieg. The gang leaders include Airborne, Blackbelt, Deadlight, Hurricane Max, Ignition, and Killerwatt. Death Card (appearing in the first Barb Wire regular series). Death Card II (appearing in the Ace of Spades mini-series) - an assassin. Ignition II - Maureen Skach. Girlfriend of Boyd Mack, the original Ignition, a gang leader with pyrokinetic powers. Believing Mack was having an affair with Barb Wire, Skach kills him, then assumes the Ignition name and leadership of his gang. The Mask Film adaptation A film adaptation was released in 1996 starring Pamela Anderson as Barb Wire. The story's premise was that Barb Wire lives in the near future rather than an alternate version of the present day, a world where superhumans and Dark Horse superheroes do not exist. In this version of the story, Steel Harbor is the last neutral "free city" during the Second American Civil War, and Barbara Kopetski is a resistance fighter who leaves behind the war after her heart is broken and she loses faith in the cause. Like the comic, she returns home to become a bounty hunter and owner of the Hammerhead. References External links Barb Wire at Don Markstein's Toonopedia. Archived from the original on February 22, 2018. Barb Wire International Hero 1994 comics debuts Characters created by Chris Warner Comics' Greatest World Dark Horse Comics adapted into films Dark Horse Comics female superheroes Dark Horse Comics titles Fictional bounty hunters Fictional female murderers
In the sport of baseball, each of the nine players on a team is assigned a particular fielding position when it is their turn to play defense. Each position conventionally has an associated number, for use in scorekeeping by the official scorer: 1 (pitcher), 2 (catcher), 3 (first baseman), 4 (second baseman), 5 (third baseman), 6 (shortstop), 7 (left fielder), 8 (center fielder), and 9 (right fielder). Collectively, these positions are usually grouped into three groups: the outfield (left field, center field, and right field), the infield (first base, second base, third base, and shortstop), and the battery (pitcher and catcher). Traditionally, players within each group will often be more able to exchange positions easily (that is, a second baseman can usually play shortstop well, and a center fielder can also be expected to play right field); however, the pitcher and catcher are highly specialized positions and rarely will play at other positions. Fielding Fielders must be able to catch the ball well, as catching batted balls before they bounce is one way they can put the batter out, as well as create opportunities to prevent the advance of, and put out other runners. In addition, they must be able to throw the ball well, with many plays in the game depending on one fielder collecting the hit ball and then throwing it to another fielder who, while holding the ball in their hand/glove, touches either a runner or the base the runner is forced to run to in order to record an out. Fielders often have to run, dive, and slide a great deal in the act of reaching, stopping, and retrieving a hit ball, and then setting themselves up to transfer the ball, all with the end goal of getting the ball as quickly as possible to another fielder. They also run the risk of colliding with incoming runners during a tag attempt at a base. Fielders may have different responsibilities depending on the game situation. For example, when an outfielder is attempting to throw the ball from near the fence to one of the bases, an infielder may need to "cut off" the throw and then act as a relay thrower to help the ball cover its remaining distance to the target destination. As a group, the outfielders are responsible for preventing home runs by reaching over the fence (and potentially doing a wall climb) for fly balls that are catchable. The infielders are the ones who generally handle plays that involve tagging a base or runner, and also need quick reflexes in order to catch a batted ball before it leaves the infield. The pitcher and catcher have special responsibilities to prevent base stealing, as they are the ones who handle the ball whenever it has not been hit. The catcher will also sometimes attempt to block the plate in order to prevent a run being scored. Other roles Designated hitter Pinch hitter Pinch runner Utility infielder Utility players Starting pitcher Relief pitcher Left-handed specialist Long reliever Middle reliever Setup pitcher (setup man) Closer Other team personnel Manager Coaches Athletic Trainer Equipment manager General manager Batboy Ball boy/girl Team physician See also Infield shift Ace (baseball) Starting lineup Injury list Mascot Official scorer Umpire Baseball awards Baseball clothing and equipment Glossary of baseball terms Baseball scorekeeping Baseball statistics Fielding (cricket) References
The Major League Baseball Most Valuable Player Award (MVP) is an annual Major League Baseball (MLB) award given to one outstanding player in the American League and one in the National League. The award has been presented by the Baseball Writers' Association of America (BBWAA) since 1931. History Since 1931, a Most Valuable Player Award has been bestowed by the Baseball Writers' Association of America (BBWAA) to a player in the National League and a player in the American League. Prior to 1931, two similar awards were issued—the League Award was issued during 1922–1928 in the American League and during 1924–1929 in the National League, and during 1911–1914, the Chalmers Award was issued to a player in each league. Criteria and a list of winners for these two earlier awards are detailed in below sections. MVP voting takes place before the postseason, but the results are not announced until after the World Series. The BBWAA began by polling three writers in each league city in 1938, reducing that number to two per league city in 1961. The BBWAA does not offer a clear-cut definition of what "most valuable" means, instead leaving the judgment to the individual voters. In 1944, the award was named after Kenesaw Mountain Landis, the first Commissioner of Baseball, who served from 1920 until his death on November 25, 1944. Formally named the Kenesaw Mountain Landis Memorial Baseball Award, that naming appeared on a plaque given to winning players. Starting in 2020, Landis' name no longer appears on the MVP plaque after the BBWAA received complaints from several former MVP winners about Landis' role against the integration of MLB. First basemen, with 35 winners, have won the most MVPs among infielders, followed by second basemen (16), third basemen (15), and shortstops (15). Of the 25 pitchers who have won the award, 15 are right-handed while 10 are left-handed. Walter Johnson, Carl Hubbell, and Hal Newhouser are the only pitchers who have won multiple times, with Newhouser winning consecutively in 1944 and 1945. Hank Greenberg, Stan Musial, Alex Rodriguez, and Robin Yount have won at different positions, while Rodriguez is the only player who has won the award with two different teams at two different positions. Rodriguez and Andre Dawson are the only players to win the award while on a last-place team, the 2003 Texas Rangers and 1987 Chicago Cubs, respectively. Barry Bonds has won the most often (seven times) and the most consecutively (four from 2001 to 2004). Jimmie Foxx was the first player to win multiple times – 10 players have won three times, and 19 have won twice. Frank Robinson is the only player to win the award in both the American and National Leagues. The award's only tie occurred in the National League in 1979, when Keith Hernandez and Willie Stargell received an equal number of points. There have been 19 unanimous winners, who received all the first-place votes. The New York Yankees have the most winning players with 23, followed by the St. Louis Cardinals with 21 winners. The award has never been presented to a member of the following three teams: Arizona Diamondbacks, New York Mets, and Tampa Bay Rays. In recent decades, pitchers have rarely won the award. When Shohei Ohtani won the AL award in 2021, he became the first pitcher in either league to be named the MVP since Clayton Kershaw in 2014, and the first in the American League since Justin Verlander in 2011. Ohtani also became the first two-way player to win this award. Since the creation of the Cy Young Award in 1956, he is the only pitcher to win an MVP award without winning a Cy Young in the same year (Don Newcombe, Sandy Koufax, Bob Gibson, Denny McLain, Vida Blue, Rollie Fingers, Willie Hernández, Roger Clemens, Dennis Eckersley, Justin Verlander, and Clayton Kershaw all won a Cy Young award in their MVP seasons). Key Chalmers Award (1911–1914) Before the 1910 season, Hugh Chalmers of Chalmers Automobile announced he would present a Chalmers Model 30 automobile to the player with the highest batting average in Major League Baseball at the end of the season. The 1910 race for best average in the American League was between the Detroit Tigers' widely disliked Ty Cobb and Nap Lajoie of the Cleveland Indians. On the last day of the season, Lajoie overtook Cobb's batting average with seven bunt hits against the St. Louis Browns. American League President Ban Johnson said a recalculation showed that Cobb had won the race anyway, and Chalmers ended up awarding cars to both players. In the following season, Chalmers created the Chalmers Award. A committee of baseball writers was to convene after the season to determine the "most important and useful player to the club and the league". Since the award was not as effective at advertising as Chalmers had hoped, it was discontinued after 1914. League Awards (1922–1929) In 1922 the American League created a new award to honor "the baseball player who is of the greatest all-around service to his club". Winners, voted on by a committee of eight baseball writers chaired by James Crusinberry, received a bronze medal and a cash prize. Voters were required to select one player from each team and player-coaches and prior award winners were ineligible. Famously, these criteria resulted in Babe Ruth winning only a single MVP award before it was dropped after 1928. The National League award, without these restrictions, lasted from 1924 to 1929. Baseball Writers' Association of America's Most Valuable Player (1931–present) The BBWAA was first awarded the modern MVP after the 1931 season, adopting the format the National League used to distribute its league award. One writer in each city with a team filled out a ten-place ballot, with ten points for the recipient of a first-place vote, nine for a second-place vote, and so on. In 1938, the BBWAA raised the number of voters to three per city and gave 14 points for a first-place vote. The only significant change since then occurred in 1961 when the number of voters was reduced to two per league city. Wins by team See also "Esurance MLB Awards" Best Major Leaguer (in MLB; all positions) (there are also Best Hitter and Best Pitcher awards (in MLB)) "Players Choice Awards" Player of the Year (in MLB; all positions) (there are also Outstanding Player and Outstanding Pitcher awards (in each league)) Baseball America Major League Player of the Year (in MLB; all positions) Baseball Digest Player of the Year (in MLB; position players only; from 1969 to 1993, included all positions; in 1994, a separate Pitcher of the Year award was added) Best Major League Baseball Player ESPY Award (in MLB; all positions) The Sporting News Most Valuable Player Award (in each league) (discontinued in 1946) Sporting News Player of the Year (in MLB; position players only) List of Major League Baseball awards Baseball awards Notes A player is considered inactive if he has announced his retirement or has not played for a full season. A unanimous victory indicates that the player received all possible first-place votes. Torre is a member of the Hall of Fame, but not as a player. He was inducted in as a manager. Hernandez and Stargell both received 216 points in the 1979 voting. References External links Most Valuable Player MVP Awards & Cy Young Awards Winners (1911–present) (and "Multiple Winners of the MVP and Cy Young Awards"). Baseball-Reference.com. Retrieved 2016-11-07. Major League Baseball most valuable player awards Most Valuable Player Award Major League Baseball Major League Baseball Awards established in 1931
In Major League Baseball, the Rookie of the Year Award is given annually to two outstanding rookie players, one each for the American League (AL) and National League (NL), as voted on by the Baseball Writers' Association of America (BBWAA). The award was established in 1940 by the Chicago chapter of the BBWAA, which selected an annual winner from 1940 through 1946. The award became national in 1947; Jackie Robinson, the Brooklyn Dodgers' second baseman, won the inaugural award. One award was presented for all of MLB in 1947 and 1948; since 1949, the honor has been given to one player each in the NL and AL. Originally, the award was known as the J. Louis Comiskey Memorial Award, named after the Chicago White Sox owner of the 1930s. The award was renamed the Jackie Robinson Award in July 1987, 40 years after Robinson broke the baseball color line. Nineteen players have been elected to the National Baseball Hall of Fame—Robinson, seven AL players, and eleven others from the NL. The award has been shared twice: once by Butch Metzger and Pat Zachry of the NL in 1976; and once by John Castino and Alfredo Griffin of the AL in 1979. Members of the Brooklyn and Los Angeles Dodgers have won the most awards of any franchise (with 18), twice the total of the New York Yankees, and members of the Philadelphia and Oakland Athletics (eight), who have produced the most in the AL. Fred Lynn and Ichiro Suzuki are the only two players who have been named Rookie of the Year and Most Valuable Player in the same year, and Fernando Valenzuela is the only player to have won Rookie of the Year and the Cy Young Award in the same year. Sam Jethroe is the oldest player to have won the award, at age 32, 33 days older than 2000 winner Kazuhiro Sasaki (also 32). Julio Rodríguez of the Seattle Mariners and Michael Harris II of the Atlanta Braves are the most recent winners. Qualifications and voting From 1947 through 1956, each BBWAA voter used discretion as to who qualified as a rookie. In 1957, the term was first defined as someone with fewer than 75 at-bats or 45 innings pitched in any previous Major League season. This guideline was later amended to 90 at-bats, 45 innings pitched, or 45 days on a Major League roster before September 1 of the previous year. The current standard of 130 at-bats, 50 innings pitched or 45 days on the active roster of a Major League club (excluding time in military service or on the injury list) before September 1 was adopted in 1971. Since 1980, each voter names three rookies: a first-place choice is given five points, a second-place choice three points, and a third-place choice one point. The award goes to the player who receives the most overall points. Edinson Vólquez received three second-place votes in 2008 balloting despite no longer being a rookie under the award's definition. The award has drawn criticism in recent years because several players with experience in Nippon Professional Baseball (NPB) have won the award, such as Hideo Nomo in 1995, Kazuhiro Sasaki in 2000, Ichiro Suzuki in 2001, and Shohei Ohtani in 2018. The current definition of rookie status for the award is based only on Major League experience, but some feel that past NPB players are not true rookies because of their past professional experience. Others, however, believe it should make no difference since the first recipient and the award's namesake played for the Negro leagues before his MLB career and thus could also not be considered a "true rookie". This issue arose in 2003 when Hideki Matsui narrowly lost the AL award to Ángel Berroa. Jim Souhan of the Minneapolis Star Tribune said he did not see Matsui as a rookie in 2003 because "it would be an insult to the Japanese league to pretend that experience didn't count." The Japan Times ran a story in 2007 on the labeling of Daisuke Matsuzaka, Kei Igawa, and Hideki Okajima as rookies, saying "[t]hese guys aren't rookies." Past winners such as Jackie Robinson, Don Newcombe, and Sam Jethroe had professional experience in the Negro leagues. Winners Key Major Leagues combined (1947–48) American League winners (1949–present) National League winners (1949–present) Wins by team Only the Arizona Diamondbacks have never had a player win the Rookie of the Year Award. The Brooklyn/Los Angeles Dodgers have won more than any other team with 18. See also Esurance MLB Awards Best Rookie (in MLB) Players Choice Awards Outstanding Rookie (in each league) Baseball America Rookie of the Year (in MLB) Sporting News Rookie of the Year Award (in each league) Rookie of the Month Topps All-Star Rookie Teams Baseball awards Rookie of the Year (award) (all sports) References General Inline citations Rookie of the Year Awards established in 1947 1947 establishments in the United States
The National League Championship Series (NLCS), also known as the National League Pennant, is a best-of-seven playoff and one of two League Championship Series comprising the penultimate round of Major League Baseball's (MLB) postseason. It is contested by the winners of the two National League (NL) Division Series. The winner of the NLCS wins the NL pennant and advances to the World Series, MLB's championship series, to play the winner of the American League's (AL) Championship Series. The NLCS began in 1969 as a best-of-five playoff and used this format until 1985, when it changed to a best-of-seven format. History Prior to 1969, the National League champion (the "pennant winner") was determined by the best win–loss record at the end of the regular season. There were four ad hoc three-game playoff series due to ties under this formulation (in 1946, 1951, 1959, and 1962). A structured postseason series began in 1969, when both the National and American Leagues were reorganized into two divisions each, East and West. The two division winners within each league played each other in a best-of-five series to determine who would advance to the World Series. In 1985, the format changed to best-of-seven. The NLCS and ALCS, since the expansion to seven games, are always played in a 2–3–2 format: games 1, 2, 6, and 7 are played in the stadium of the team that has home field advantage, and games 3, 4, and 5 are played in the stadium of the team that does not. Home field advantage is given to the team that has the better record, except a division champion would always get home advantage over a Wild Card team. From 1969 to 1993, home field advantage was alternated between divisions each year regardless of regular season record and from 1995 to 1997 home field advantage was predetermined before the season. In 1981, a one-off division series was held due to a split season caused by a players' strike. In 1994, the league was restructured into three divisions, with the three division winners and a wild card team advancing to a best-of-five postseason round, the now-permanent National League Division Series (NLDS). The winners of that round advance to the best-of-seven NLCS. The Milwaukee Brewers, an American League team between 1969 and 1997, and the Houston Astros, a National League team between 1962 and 2012, are the only franchises to play in both the ALCS and NLCS. The Astros are the only team to have won both an NLCS (2005) and an ALCS (2017, 2019, 2021, and 2022). The Astros made four NLCS appearances before moving to the AL in 2013. Every current National League franchise has appeared in the NLCS and all teams except the Brewers have won an NL Pennant via the NLCS. For the first time in history, two wild card teams played in the 2022 National League Championship Series. Championship Trophy The Warren C. Giles Trophy is awarded to the NLCS winner. Warren Giles served as president of the National League from 1951 to 1969. Most Valuable Player Award See: League Championship Series Most Valuable Player Award#National League winners A Most Valuable Player (MVP) award is given to the outstanding player in the NLCS. No MVP award is given for Division Series play. The MVP award has been given to a player on the losing team twice, in 1986 to Mike Scott of the Houston Astros and in 1987 to Jeffrey Leonard of the San Francisco Giants. Although the National League began its LCS MVP award in 1977, the American League did not begin its LCS MVP award until 1980. The winners are listed in several locations: in the below NLCS results table, in the "Series MVP" column in the article League Championship Series Most Valuable Player Award on the MLB website Results Appearances by team Years of appearance In the sortable table below, teams are ordered first by number of wins, then by number of appearances, and finally by year of first appearance. In the "Season(s)" column, bold years indicate winning appearances. Frequent matchups See also List of National League pennant winners List of National League Wild Card winners National League Division Series American League Championship Series Notes References External links League Championship Series History at Baseball Almanac World Series and MLB Playoffs at Baseball-Reference.com Post-Season Games Directory at Retrosheet Recurring sporting events established in 1969 Annual events in Major League Baseball
The American League Championship Series (ALCS), also known as the American League Pennant, is a best-of-seven playoff and one of two League Championship Series comprising the penultimate round of Major League Baseball's (MLB) postseason. The winner of the ALCS wins the AL pennant and advances to the World Series, MLB's championship series, to play the winner of the National League's (NL) Championship Series. The ALCS began in 1969 as a best-of-five playoff and used this format until 1985, when it changed to its current best-of-seven format. History Prior to 1969, the American League champion (the "pennant winner") was determined by the best win–loss record at the end of the regular season. There was one ad hoc single-game playoff held, in , due to a tie under this formulation. The ALCS started in 1969, when the AL reorganized into two divisions, East and West. The winners of each division played each other in a best-of-five series to determine who would advance to the World Series. In 1985, the format changed to best-of-seven. In 1981, a division series was held due to a split season caused by a players' strike. In 1994, the league was restructured into three divisions, with the three division winners and a Wild Card team advancing to a best-of-five postseason round, known as the American League Division Series (ALDS). The winners of that round then advanced to the best-of-seven ALCS. The playoffs were expanded in 2012 to include a second Wild Card team and in 2022 to include a third Wild Card team. The ALCS and NLCS, since the expansion to best-of-seven, are always played in a 2–3–2 format: Games 1, 2, 6, and 7 are played in the stadium of the team that has home field advantage, and Games 3, 4, and 5 are played in the stadium of the team that does not. The series concludes when one team records its fourth win. Since 1998, home field advantage has been given to the team that has the better regular season record, except a division champion would always get home advantage over a Wild Card team. If both teams have identical records in the regular season, then home field advantage goes to the team that has the winning head-to-head record. From 1969 to 1993, home-field advantage alternated between the two divisions, and from 1995 to 1997 home-field advantage was determined before the season. Eight managers have led a team to the ALCS in three consecutive seasons; however, the most consecutive ALCS appearances by one manager are held by Joe Torre, who led the New York Yankees to four straight from 1998 to 2001, and Dusty Baker who lead the Houston Astros to four straight from 2020 to 2023. The Astros (2017-present) are also the only team in the American League to have made seven consecutive American League Championship Series appearances. The Milwaukee Brewers, an American League team between 1969 and 1997, and the Houston Astros, a National League team between 1962 and 2012, are the only franchises to play in both the ALCS and NLCS. The Astros are the only team to have won both an NLCS (2005) and an ALCS (2017, 2019, 2021, and 2022). Every current American League franchise has appeared in the ALCS. Championship Trophy The William Harridge Trophy is awarded to the ALCS champion. Will Harridge served as American League president from 1931 to 1959. Most Valuable Player Award See: League Championship Series Most Valuable Player Award#American League winners The Lee MacPhail Most Valuable Player (MVP) award is given to the outstanding player in the ALCS. No MVP award is given for Division Series play. Although the National League began its LCS MVP award in 1977, the American League did not begin its LCS MVP award till 1980. The winners are listed in several locations: in the below ALCS results table, in the "Series MVP" column in the article League Championship Series Most Valuable Player Award on the MLB website Results Appearances by team Years of appearance In the sortable table below, teams are ordered first by number of wins, then by number of appearances, and finally by year of first appearance. In the "Season(s)" column, bold years indicate winning appearances. Recurring matchups See also List of American League pennant winners List of American League Wild Card winners American League Division Series National League Championship Series Notes References External links League Championship Series History at Baseball Almanac World Series and MLB Playoffs at Baseball-Reference.com Post-Season Games Directory at Retrosheet Recurring sporting events established in 1969 Annual events in Major League Baseball
In Major League Baseball, the American League Division Series (ALDS) determines which two teams from the American League will advance to the American League Championship Series. The Division Series consists of two best-of-five series, featuring each of the two division winners with the best records and the winners of the wild-card play-off. History The Division Series was implemented in 1981 as a one-off tournament because of a midseason strike, with the first place teams before the strike taking on the teams in first place after the strike. In 1981, a split-season format forced the first ever divisional playoff series, in which the New York Yankees won the Eastern Division series over the Milwaukee Brewers (who were in the American League until 1998) in five games while in the Western Division, the Oakland Athletics swept the Kansas City Royals (the only team with an overall losing record to ever make the postseason). In 1994, it was returned permanently when Major League Baseball (MLB) restructured each league into three divisions, but with a different format than in 1981. Each of the division winners, along with one wild card team, qualify for the Division Series. Despite being planned for the 1994 season, the postseason was cancelled that year due to the 1994–95 Major League Baseball strike. In 1995, the first season to feature a division series, the Western Division champion Seattle Mariners defeated the wild card New York Yankees three games to two, while the Central Division champion Cleveland Indians defeated the Eastern Division champion Boston Red Sox in a three-game sweep. From 1994 to 2011, the wild card was given to the team in the American League with the best overall record that was not a division champion. Beginning with the 2012 season, a second wild card team was added, and the two wild card teams play a single-game playoff to determine which team would play in the ALDS. For the 2020 Major League Baseball season only, there was an expanded playoff format, owing to an abbreviated 60-game regular season due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Eight teams qualified from the American League: the top two teams in each division plus the next two best records among the remaining teams. These eight teams played a best-of-three-game series to determine placement in the ALDS. The regular format returned for the 2021 season. As of 2022, the Yankees have played in and won the most division series, with thirteen wins in twenty-two appearances. In 2015, the Toronto Blue Jays and Houston Astros were the final American League teams to make their first appearances in the ALDS. The Astros had been in the National League through 2012, and had played in the National League Division Series (NLDS) seven times. The Astros are the only team to win the ALDS in six consecutive seasons. The Yankees record of four consecutive victories was broken by the Astros with their victory in the 2021 ALDS against the Tampa Bay Rays. Determining the matchups The ALDS is a best-of-five series where the divisional winner with the best winning percentage in the regular season hosts the winner of the Wild Card Series between the top two wild card teams in one matchup, and the divisional winner with the second best winning percentage hosts the winner of the series between the lowest-seeded divisional winner and the lowest-seeded wild card team. (From 2012 to 2021, the wild card team was assigned to play the divisional winner with the best winning percentage in the regular season in one series, and the other two division winners met in the other series. From 1998 to 2011, if the wild-card team and the division winner with the best record were from the same division, the wild-card team played the division winner with the second-best record, and the remaining two division leaders played each other.) The two series winners move on to the best-of-seven ALCS. According to Nate Silver, the advent of this playoff series, and especially of the wild card, has caused teams to focus more on "getting to the playoffs" rather than "winning the pennant" as the primary goal of the regular season. From 2012 to 2021, the wild card team that advances to the Division Series was to face the number 1 seed, regardless whether or not they are in the same division. The two series winners move on to the best-of-seven ALCS. Beginning with the 2022 season, the winner between the lowest-ranked division winner and lowest-ranked wild card team faces the number 2 seed division winner in the Division Series, while the 4 v. 5 wild card winner still faces the number 1 seed, as there is no reseeding even if the 6-seeded wild card advances. Home-field advantage goes to the team with the better regular season record (or head-to-head record if there is a tie between two or more teams), except for the wild-card team, which never receives the home field advantage. Beginning in 2003, MLB has implemented a new rule to give the team from the league that wins the All-Star Game with the best regular season record a slightly greater advantage. In order to spread out the Division Series games for broadcast purposes, the two ALDS series follow one of two off-day schedules. Starting in 2007, after consulting the MLBPA, MLB has decided to allow the team with the best record in the league that wins the All-Star Game to choose whether to use the seven-day schedule (1-2-off-3-4-off-5) or the eight-day schedule (1-off-2-off-3-4-off-5). The team only gets to choose the schedule; the opponent is still determined by win–loss records. Initially, the best-of-5 series played in a 2–3 format, with the first two games set at home for the lower seed team and the last three for the higher seed. Since 1998, the series has followed a 2–2–1 format, where the higher seed team plays at home in Games 1 and 2, the lower seed plays at home in Game 3 and Game 4 (if necessary), and if a Game 5 is needed, the teams return to the higher seed's field. When MLB added a second wild card team in 2012, the Division Series re-adopted the 2–3 format due to scheduling conflicts. However, it reverted to the 2–2–1 format starting the next season, 2013. Results Appearances by team Years of appearance In the sortable table below, teams are ordered first by number of wins, then by number of appearances, and finally by year of first appearance. In the "Season(s)" column, bold years indicate winning appearances. Frequent matchups See also National League Division Series (NLDS) List of American League pennant winners List of National League pennant winners List of World Series champions MLB division winners MLB postseason Notes References External links Baseball-Reference.com - annual playoffs MLB.com - MLB's Division Series historical reference - box scores, highlights, etc. Recurring sporting events established in 1981 Annual events in Major League Baseball
In Major League Baseball, the National League Division Series (NLDS) determines which two teams from the National League will advance to the National League Championship Series. The Division Series consists of two best-of-five series, featuring each of the two division winners with the best records and the winners of the wild-card play-offs. History The Division Series was implemented in 1981 as a one-off tournament because of a midseason strike, with the first place teams before the strike taking on the teams in first place after the strike. In 1981, a split-season format forced the first ever divisional playoff series, in which the Montreal Expos won the Eastern Division series over the Philadelphia Phillies in five games while in the Western Division, the Los Angeles Dodgers defeated the Houston Astros, also in five games (the Astros were members of the National League until 2012). In 1994, it was returned permanently when Major League Baseball (MLB) restructured each league into three divisions, but with a different format than in 1981. Each of the division winners, along with one wild card team, qualify for the Division Series. Despite being planned for the 1994 season, the post-season was cancelled that year due to the 1994–95 Major League Baseball strike. In 1995, the first season to feature a division series, the Eastern Division champion Atlanta Braves defeated the wild card Colorado Rockies three games to one, while the Central Division champion Cincinnati Reds defeated the Western Division champion Los Angeles Dodgers in a three game sweep. From 1994 to 2011, the wild card was given to the team in the National League with the best overall record that was not a division champion. Beginning with the 2012 season, a second wild card team was added, and the two wild card teams play a single-game playoff to determine which team would play in the NLDS. For the 2020 Major League Baseball season only, there was an expanded playoff format, owing to an abbreviated 60-game regular season due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Eight teams qualified from the National League: the top two teams in each division plus the next two best records among the remaining teams. These eight teams played a best-of-three game series to determine placement in the NLDS. The regular format returned for the 2021 season. As of 2021, the Atlanta Braves have currently played in the most NL division series with seventeen appearances. The St. Louis Cardinals have currently won the most NL division series, winning eleven of the fourteen series in which they have played. The Pittsburgh Pirates (who finished with a losing record from 1993 to 2012) were the last team to make their first appearance in the NL division series, making their debut in 2013 after winning the 2013 National League Wild Card Game. In 2008, the Milwaukee Brewers became the first team to play in division series in both leagues when they won the National League wild card, their first postseason berth since winning the American League East Division title in 1982 before switching leagues in 1998. Milwaukee had competed in an American League Division Series in the strike-shortened 1981 season. Format The NLDS is a best-of-five series where the divisional winner with the best winning percentage in the regular season hosts the winner of the Wild Card Series between the top two wild card teams in one matchup, and the divisional winner with the second best winning percentage hosts the winner of the other Wild Card Series between the lowest-seeded divisional winner and the lowest-seeded wild card team. (From 2012 to 2021, the wild card team was assigned to play the divisional winner with the best winning percentage in the regular season in one series, and the other two division winners met in the other series. From 1998 to 2011, if the wild-card team and the division winner with the best record were from the same division, the wild-card team played the division winner with the second-best record, and the remaining two division leaders played each other.) The two series winners move on to the best-of-seven NLCS. According to Nate Silver, the advent of this playoff series, and especially of the wild card, has caused teams to focus more on "getting to the playoffs" rather than "winning the pennant" as the primary goal of the regular season. From 2012 to 2021, the wild card team that advances to the Division Series was to face the number 1 seed, regardless whether or not they are in the same division. The two series winners move on to the best-of-seven NLCS. Beginning with the 2022 season, the winner between the lowest-ranked division winner and lowest-ranked wild card team faces the #2 seed division winner in the Division Series, while the 4 v. 5 wild card winner faces the #1 seed, as there is no reseeding even if the 6 seed wild card advances. Home-field advantage goes to the team with the better regular season record (or head-to-head record if there is a tie between two or more teams), except for the wild-card team, which never receives the home-field advantage. Beginning in 2003, MLB has implemented a new rule to give the team with the best regular season record from the league that wins the All-Star Game a slightly greater advantage. In order to spread out the Division Series games for broadcast purposes, the two NLDS series follow one of two off-day schedules. Starting in 2007, after consulting the MLBPA, MLB has decided to allow the team with the best record in the league that wins the All-Star Game to choose whether to use the seven-day schedule (1-2-off-3-4-off-5) or the eight-day schedule (1-off-2-off-3-4-off-5). The team only gets to choose the schedule; the opponent is still determined by win–loss records. Initially, the best-of-5 series played in a 2–3 format, with the first two games set at home for the lower seed team and the last three for the higher seed. Since 1998, the series has followed a 2–2–1 format, where the higher seed team plays at home in Games 1 and 2, the lower seed plays at home in Game 3 and Game 4 (if necessary), and if a Game 5 is needed, the teams return to the higher seed's field. When MLB added a second wild card team in 2012, the Division Series re-adopted the 2–3 format due to scheduling conflicts. However, it reverted to the 2–2–1 format starting the next season, 2013. Results Appearances by team Years of appearance In the sortable table below, teams are ordered first by number of wins, then by number of appearances, and finally by year of first appearance. In the "Season(s)" column, bold years indicate winning appearances. Frequent matchups NOTE: With the Houston Astros move to the American League at the conclusion of the 2012 season, the Braves vs. Astros series is not currently possible. See also American League Division Series (ALDS) List of American League pennant winners List of National League pennant winners List of World Series champions MLB division winners MLB postseason Notes References External links Baseball-Reference.com - annual playoffs MLB.com - MLB's Division Series historical reference - box scores, highlights, etc. Annual events in Major League Baseball
Bundle theory, originated by the 18th century Scottish philosopher David Hume, is the ontological theory about objecthood in which an object consists only of a collection (bundle) of properties, relations or tropes. According to bundle theory, an object consists of its properties and nothing more; thus, there cannot be an object without properties and one cannot conceive of such an object. For example, when we think of an apple, we think of its properties: redness, roundness, being a type of fruit, etc. There is nothing above and beyond these properties; the apple is nothing more than the collection of its properties. In particular, there is no substance in which the properties are inherent. Arguments in favor The difficulty in conceiving and or describing an object without also conceiving and or describing its properties is a common justification for bundle theory, especially among current philosophers in the Anglo-American tradition. The inability to comprehend any aspect of the thing other than its properties implies, this argument maintains, that one cannot conceive of a bare particular (a substance without properties), an implication that directly opposes substance theory. The conceptual difficulty of bare particulars was illustrated by John Locke when he described a substance by itself, apart from its properties, as "something, I know not what. [...] The idea then we have, to which we give the general name substance, being nothing but the supposed, but unknown, support of those qualities we find existing, which we imagine cannot subsist sine re substante, without something to support them, we call that support substantia; which, according to the true import of the word, is, in plain English, standing under or upholding." Whether a relation of an object is one of its properties may complicate such an argument. However, the argument concludes that the conceptual challenge of bare particulars leaves a bundle of properties and nothing more as the only possible conception of an object, thus justifying bundle theory. Objections Bundle theory maintains that properties are bundled together in a collection without describing how they are tied together. For example, bundle theory regards an apple as red, four inches (100 mm) wide, and juicy but lacking an underlying substance. The apple is said to be a bundle of properties including redness, being four inches (100 mm) wide, and juiciness. D. Hume used the term "bundle" in this sense, also referring to the personal identity, in his main work: "I may venture to affirm of the rest of mankind, that they are nothing but a bundle or collection of different perceptions, which succeed each other with inconceivable rapidity, and are in a perpetual flux and movement". Critics question how bundle theory accounts for the properties' compresence (the togetherness relation between those properties) without an underlying substance. Critics also question how any two given properties are determined to be properties of the same object if there is no substance in which they both inhere. Traditional bundle theory explains the compresence of properties by defining an object as a collection of properties bound together. Thus, different combinations of properties and relations produce different objects. Redness and juiciness, for example, may be found together on top of the table because they are part of a bundle of properties located on the table, one of which is the "looks like an apple" property. By contrast, substance theory explains the compresence of properties by asserting that the properties are found together because it is the substance that has those properties. In substance theory, a substance is the thing in which properties inhere. For example, redness and juiciness are found on top of the table because redness and juiciness inhere in an apple, making the apple red and juicy. The bundle theory of substance explains compresence. Specifically, it maintains that properties' compresence itself engenders a substance. Thus, it determines substancehood empirically by the togetherness of properties rather than by a bare particular or by any other non-empirical underlying strata. The bundle theory of substance thus rejects the substance theories of Aristotle, Descartes, Leibniz, and more recently, J. P. Moreland, Jia Hou, Joseph Bridgman, Quentin Smith, and others. Buddhism The Indian Madhyamaka philosopher, Chandrakirti, used the aggregate nature of objects to demonstrate the lack of essence in what is known as the sevenfold reasoning. In his work, Guide to the Middle Way (Sanskrit: Madhyamakāvatāra), he says: He goes on to explain what is meant by each of these seven assertions, but briefly in a subsequent commentary he explains that the conventions of the world do not exist essentially when closely analyzed, but exist only through being taken for granted, without being subject to scrutiny that searches for an essence within them. Another view of the Buddhist theory of the self, especially in early Buddhism, is that the Buddhist theory is essentially an eliminativist theory. According to this understanding, the self can not be reduced to a bundle because there is nothing that answers to the concept of a self. Consequently, the idea of a self must be eliminated. See also Anattā Platonic realism Substance theory References Further reading David Hume (1738), A Treatise of Human Nature, Book I, Part IV, Section VI Derek Parfit (1984), Reasons and Persons External links Metaphysical theories Ontology Madhyamaka Buddhist philosophy
The Bible is a canonical collection of texts considered sacred in Judaism or Christianity. Different religious groups include different books within their canons, in different orders, and sometimes divide or combine books, or incorporate additional material into canonical books. Christian Bibles range from the sixty-six books of the Protestant canon to the eighty-one books of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church canon. Hebrew Bible Prophets Samuel Enoch Kings David Solomon Priests Aaron Eleazar Eli Phinehas Tribes of Israel According to the Book of Genesis, the Israelites were descendants of the sons of Jacob, who was renamed Israel after wrestling with an angel. His twelve male children become the ancestors of the Twelve Tribes of Israel. Asher Benjamin Dan Gad Issachar Joseph, which was split into two tribes descended from his sons: Tribe of Ephraim Tribe of Manasseh Judah Levi Naphtali Reuben Simeon Zebulun Deuterocanon Maccabees Eleazar Avaran John Gaddi John Hyrcanus Jonathan Apphus Judas Maccabeus Mattathias Simon Thassi Greek rulers Alexander the Great Antiochus III the Great Antiochus IV Epiphanes Philip II of Macedon Persian rulers Astyages Darius III Others Baruch Tobit Judith Susanna New Testament Jesus and his relatives Jesus Christ Mary, mother of Jesus Joseph Brothers of Jesus James (often identified with James, son of Alphaeus) Joseph (Joses) Judas (Jude) (often identified with Thaddeus) Simon Mary of Clopas Cleopas (often identified with Alphaeus and Clopas) Apostles of Jesus The Thirteen: Peter (a.k.a. Simon or Cephas) Andrew (Simon Peter's brother) James, son of Zebedee John, son of Zebedee Philip Bartholomew also known as "Nathanael" Thomas also known as "Doubting Thomas" Matthew also known as "Levi" James, son of Alphaeus Judas, son of James (a.k.a. Thaddeus or Lebbaeus) Simon the Zealot Judas Iscariot (the traitor) Matthias Others: Paul Barnabas Mary Magdalene (the one who discovered Jesus’ empty tomb) Priests Caiaphas, high priest Annas, first high priest of Roman Judea Zechariah, father of John the Baptist Prophets Agabus Anna Simeon John the Baptist Other believers Apollos Aquila Dionysius the Areopagite Epaphras, fellow prisoner of Paul, fellow worker John Mark (often identified with Mark) Joseph of Arimathea Lazarus Luke Mark Martha Mary Magdalene Mary, sister of Martha Nicodemus Onesimus Philemon Priscilla Silas Sopater Stephen, first martyr Timothy Titus Secular rulers Agrippa I, called "King Herod" or "Herod" in Acts 12 Felix governor of Judea who was present at the trial of Paul, and his wife Drusilla in Acts 24:24 Herod Agrippa II, king over several territories, before whom Paul made his defense in Acts 26. Herod Antipas, called "Herod the Tetrarch" or "Herod" in the Gospels and in Acts 4:27 Herodias Herod the Great Philip the Tetrarch Pontius Pilate Salome, the daughter of Herodias Quirinius Roman Emperors Augustus Tiberius Nero See also List of biblical names List of burial places of biblical figures List of Jewish biblical figures List of minor biblical figures, A–K List of minor biblical figures, L–Z List of minor New Testament figures References major
Blowfish are species of fish in the family Tetraodontidae. Blowfish may also refer to: Porcupinefish, belonging to the family Diodontidae Blowfish (cipher), an encryption algorithm Blowfish (company), an American erotic goods supplier The Blowfish, a satirical newspaper at Brandeis University Lexington County Blowfish, a baseball team Vice President Blowfish, a character in the animated series Adventure Time episode "President Porpoise Is Missing!" See also Hootie & the Blowfish, an American rock band
A ball is a round object (usually spherical, but can sometimes be ovoid) with several uses. It is used in ball games, where the play of the game follows the state of the ball as it is hit, kicked or thrown by players. Balls can also be used for simpler activities, such as catch or juggling. Balls made from hard-wearing materials are used in engineering applications to provide very low friction bearings, known as ball bearings. Black-powder weapons use stone and metal balls as projectiles. Although many types of balls are today made from rubber, this form was unknown outside the Americas until after the voyages of Columbus. The Spanish were the first Europeans to see the bouncing rubber balls (although solid and not inflated) which were employed most notably in the Mesoamerican ballgame. Balls used in various sports in other parts of the world prior to Columbus were made from other materials such as animal bladders or skins, stuffed with various materials. As balls are one of the most familiar spherical objects to humans, the word "ball" may refer to or describe spherical or near-spherical objects. "Ball" is used metaphorically sometimes to denote something spherical or spheroid, e.g., armadillos and human beings curl up into a ball, making a fist into a ball. Etymology The first known use of the word ball in English in the sense of a globular body that is played with was in 1205 in in the phrase, "" The word came from the Middle English bal (inflected as ball-e, -es, in turn from Old Norse böllr (pronounced ; compare Old Swedish baller, and Swedish boll) from Proto-Germanic ballu-z (whence probably Middle High German bal, ball-es, Middle Dutch bal), a cognate with Old High German ballo, pallo, Middle High German balle from Proto-Germanic *ballon (weak masculine), and Old High German ballâ, pallâ, Middle High German balle, Proto-Germanic *ballôn (weak feminine). No Old English representative of any of these is known. (The answering forms in Old English would have been beallu, -a, -e—compare bealluc, ballock.) If ball- was native in Germanic, it may have been a cognate with the Latin foll-is in sense of a "thing blown up or inflated." In the later Middle English spelling balle the word coincided graphically with the French balle "ball" and "bale" which has hence been erroneously assumed to be its source. French balle (but not boule) is assumed to be of Germanic origin, itself, however. In Ancient Greek the word πάλλα (palla) for "ball" is attested besides the word σφαίρα (sfaíra), sphere. History A ball, as the essential feature in many forms of gameplay requiring physical exertion, must date from the very earliest times. A rolling object appeals not only to a human baby, but to a kitten and a puppy. Some form of game with a ball is found portrayed on Egyptian monuments. In Homer, Nausicaa was playing at ball with her maidens when Odysseus first saw her in the land of the Phaeacians (Od. vi. 100). And Halios and Laodamas performed before Alcinous and Odysseus with ball play, accompanied with dancing (Od. viii. 370). The most ancient balls in Eurasia have been discovered in Karasahr, China and are 3.000 years old. They were made of hair-filled leather. Ancient Greeks Among the ancient Greeks, games with balls (σφαῖραι) were regarded as a useful subsidiary to the more violent athletic exercises, as a means of keeping the body supple, and rendering it graceful, but were generally left to boys and girls. Of regular rules for the playing of ball games, little trace remains, if there were any such. The names in Greek for various forms, which have come down to us in such works as the Ὀνομαστικόν of Julius Pollux, imply little or nothing of such; thus, ἀπόρραξις (aporraxis) only means the putting of the ball on the ground with the open hand, οὐρανία (ourania), the flinging of the ball in the air to be caught by two or more players; φαινίνδα (phaininda) would seem to be a game of catch played by two or more, where feinting is used as a test of quickness and skill. Pollux (i. x. 104) mentions a game called episkyros (ἐπίσκυρος), which has often been looked on as the origin of football. It seems to have been played by two sides, arranged in lines; how far there was any form of "goal" seems uncertain. It was impossible to produce a ball that was perfectly spherical; children usually made their own balls by inflating pig's bladders and heating them in the ashes of a fire to make them rounder, although Plato (fl. 420s BC – 340s BC) described "balls which have leather coverings in twelve pieces". Ancient Romans Among the Romans, ball games were looked upon as an adjunct to the bath, and were graduated to the age and health of the bathers, and usually a place (sphaeristerium) was set apart for them in the baths (thermae). There appear to have been three types or sizes of ball, the pila, or small ball, used in catching games, the paganica, a heavy ball stuffed with feathers, and the follis, a leather ball filled with air, the largest of the three. This was struck from player to player, who wore a kind of gauntlet on the arm. There was a game known as trigon, played by three players standing in the form of a triangle, and played with the follis, and also one known as harpastum, which seems to imply a "scrimmage" among several players for the ball. These games are known to us through the Romans, though the names are Greek. Modern ball games The various modern games played with a ball or balls and subject to rules are treated under their various names, such as polo, cricket, football, etc. Physics In sports, many modern balls are pressurized. Some are pressurized at the factory (e.g. tennis, squash (sport)) and others are pressurized by users (e.g. volleyball, basketball, football). Almost all pressurized balls gradually leak air. If the ball is factory pressurized, there is usually a rule about whether the ball retains sufficient pressure to remain playable. Depressurized balls lack bounce and are often termed "dead". In extreme cases a dead ball becomes flaccid. If the ball is pressured on use, there are generally rules about how the ball is pressurized before the match, and when (or whether) the ball can be repressurized or replaced. Due to the ideal gas law, ball pressure is a function of temperature, generally tracking ambient conditions. Softer balls that are struck hard (especially squash balls) increase in temperature due to inelastic collision. In outdoor sports, wet balls play differently than dry balls. In indoor sports, balls may become damp due to hand sweat. Any form of humidity or dampness will affect a ball's surface friction, which will alter a player's ability to impart spin on the ball. The action required to apply spin to a ball is governed by the physics of angular momentum. Spinning balls travelling through air (technically a fluid) will experience the Magnus effect, which can produce lateral deflections in addition to the normal up-down curvature induced by a combination of wind resistance and gravity. Round balls Prolate spheroid balls Several sports use a ball in the shape of a prolate spheroid: See also Ball (mathematics) Buckminster Fullerene "Bucky balls" Football (ball) Hockey puck, can also spin, bounce, and roll Kickball Marbles Penny floater Prisoner Ball Shuttlecock Super Ball References External links
In mathematics, a binary function (also called bivariate function, or function of two variables) is a function that takes two inputs. Precisely stated, a function is binary if there exists sets such that where is the Cartesian product of and Alternative definitions Set-theoretically, a binary function can be represented as a subset of the Cartesian product , where belongs to the subset if and only if . Conversely, a subset defines a binary function if and only if for any and , there exists a unique such that belongs to . is then defined to be this . Alternatively, a binary function may be interpreted as simply a function from to . Even when thought of this way, however, one generally writes instead of . (That is, the same pair of parentheses is used to indicate both function application and the formation of an ordered pair.) Examples Division of whole numbers can be thought of as a function. If is the set of integers, is the set of natural numbers (except for zero), and is the set of rational numbers, then division is a binary function . Another example is that of inner products, or more generally functions of the form , where , are real-valued vectors of appropriate size and is a matrix. If is a positive definite matrix, this yields an inner product. Functions of two real variables Functions whose domain is a subset of are often also called functions of two variables even if their domain does not form a rectangle and thus the cartesian product of two sets. Restrictions to ordinary functions In turn, one can also derive ordinary functions of one variable from a binary function. Given any element , there is a function , or , from to , given by . Similarly, given any element , there is a function , or , from to , given by . In computer science, this identification between a function from to and a function from to , where is the set of all functions from to , is called currying. Generalisations The various concepts relating to functions can also be generalised to binary functions. For example, the division example above is surjective (or onto) because every rational number may be expressed as a quotient of an integer and a natural number. This example is injective in each input separately, because the functions f x and f y are always injective. However, it's not injective in both variables simultaneously, because (for example) f (2,4) = f (1,2). One can also consider partial binary functions, which may be defined only for certain values of the inputs. For example, the division example above may also be interpreted as a partial binary function from Z and N to Q, where N is the set of all natural numbers, including zero. But this function is undefined when the second input is zero. A binary operation is a binary function where the sets X, Y, and Z are all equal; binary operations are often used to define algebraic structures. In linear algebra, a bilinear transformation is a binary function where the sets X, Y, and Z are all vector spaces and the derived functions f x and fy are all linear transformations. A bilinear transformation, like any binary function, can be interpreted as a function from X × Y to Z, but this function in general won't be linear. However, the bilinear transformation can also be interpreted as a single linear transformation from the tensor product to Z. Generalisations to ternary and other functions The concept of binary function generalises to ternary (or 3-ary) function, quaternary (or 4-ary) function, or more generally to n-ary function for any natural number n. A 0-ary function to Z is simply given by an element of Z. One can also define an A-ary function where A is any set; there is one input for each element of A. Category theory In category theory, n-ary functions generalise to n-ary morphisms in a multicategory. The interpretation of an n-ary morphism as an ordinary morphisms whose domain is some sort of product of the domains of the original n-ary morphism will work in a monoidal category. The construction of the derived morphisms of one variable will work in a closed monoidal category. The category of sets is closed monoidal, but so is the category of vector spaces, giving the notion of bilinear transformation above. See also Arity References Types of functions 2 (number)
In mathematics, a binary operation or dyadic operation is a rule for combining two elements (called operands) to produce another element. More formally, a binary operation is an operation of arity two. More specifically, an internal binary operation on a set is a binary operation whose two domains and the codomain are the same set. Examples include the familiar arithmetic operations of addition, subtraction, and multiplication. Other examples are readily found in different areas of mathematics, such as vector addition, matrix multiplication, and conjugation in groups. An operation of arity two that involves several sets is sometimes also called a binary operation. For example, scalar multiplication of vector spaces takes a scalar and a vector to produce a vector, and scalar product takes two vectors to produce a scalar. Such binary operations may also be called binary functions. Binary operations are the keystone of most structures that are studied in algebra, in particular in semigroups, monoids, groups, rings, fields, and vector spaces. Terminology More precisely, a binary operation on a set is a mapping of the elements of the Cartesian product to : Because the result of performing the operation on a pair of elements of is again an element of , the operation is called a closed (or internal) binary operation on (or sometimes expressed as having the property of closure). If is not a function but a partial function, then is called a partial binary operation. For instance, division of real numbers is a partial binary operation, because one can't divide by zero: is undefined for every real number . In both model theory and classical universal algebra, binary operations are required to be defined on all elements of . However, partial algebras generalize universal algebras to allow partial operations. Sometimes, especially in computer science, the term binary operation is used for any binary function. Properties and examples Typical examples of binary operations are the addition () and multiplication () of numbers and matrices as well as composition of functions on a single set. For instance, On the set of real numbers , is a binary operation since the sum of two real numbers is a real number. On the set of natural numbers , is a binary operation since the sum of two natural numbers is a natural number. This is a different binary operation than the previous one since the sets are different. On the set of matrices with real entries, is a binary operation since the sum of two such matrices is a matrix. On the set of matrices with real entries, is a binary operation since the product of two such matrices is a matrix. For a given set , let be the set of all functions . Define by for all , the composition of the two functions and in . Then is a binary operation since the composition of the two functions is again a function on the set (that is, a member of ). Many binary operations of interest in both algebra and formal logic are commutative, satisfying for all elements and in , or associative, satisfying for all , , and in . Many also have identity elements and inverse elements. The first three examples above are commutative and all of the above examples are associative. On the set of real numbers , subtraction, that is, , is a binary operation which is not commutative since, in general, . It is also not associative, since, in general, ; for instance, but . On the set of natural numbers , the binary operation exponentiation, , is not commutative since, (cf. Equation xy = yx), and is also not associative since . For instance, with , , and , , but . By changing the set to the set of integers , this binary operation becomes a partial binary operation since it is now undefined when and is any negative integer. For either set, this operation has a right identity (which is ) since for all in the set, which is not an identity (two sided identity) since in general. Division (), a partial binary operation on the set of real or rational numbers, is not commutative or associative. Tetration (), as a binary operation on the natural numbers, is not commutative or associative and has no identity element. Notation Binary operations are often written using infix notation such as , , or (by juxtaposition with no symbol) rather than by functional notation of the form . Powers are usually also written without operator, but with the second argument as superscript. Binary operations are sometimes written using prefix or (more frequently) postfix notation, both of which dispense with parentheses. They are also called, respectively, Polish notation and reverse Polish notation . Binary operations as ternary relations A binary operation on a set may be viewed as a ternary relation on , that is, the set of triples in for all and in . External binary operations An external binary operation is a binary function from to . This differs from a binary operation on a set in the sense in that need not be ; its elements come from outside. An example of an external binary operation is scalar multiplication in linear algebra. Here is a field and is a vector space over that field. Some external binary operations may alternatively be viewed as an action of on . This requires the existence of an associative multiplication in , and a compatibility rule of the form , where and (here, both the external operation and the multiplication in are denoted by juxtaposition). The dot product of two vectors maps to , where is a field and is a vector space over . It depends on authors whether it is considered as a binary operation. See also :Category:Properties of binary operations Iterated binary operation Operator (programming) Ternary operation Truth table#Binary operations Unary operation Magma (algebra), a set equipped with a binary operation. Notes References External links
Bedrock Records is an English record label for trance, progressive house and techno started by John Digweed. Its name comes from a long running and successful club night held in Hastings and also at Heaven nightclub, London - both also called Bedrock. Bedrock Records has released many singles from artists such as Astro & Glyde, Brancaccio & Aisher, Steve Lawler, Shmuel Flash, Steve Porter, Sahar Z, Guy J, Henry Saiz, Stelios Vassiloudis, Electric Rescue, The Japanese Popstars and Jerry Bonham. Bedrock is also the name that Digweed and Muir use as their production moniker. Bedrock has had different imprints: Bedrock Breaks, B_Rock and Black (Bedrock). Currently it has Bedrock Digital and one called Lost & Found belonging to Guy J. The first Bedrock album compiled and mixed by John Digweed was released in 1999, containing several tracks signed to the Bedrock label. In 2018, Digweed marked the 20th anniversary of the label with the release of Bedrock XX. See also List of electronic music record labels References External links Official site Record labels established in 1999 1999 establishments in the United Kingdom British record labels Trance record labels House music record labels Techno record labels
British may refer to: Peoples, culture, and language British people, nationals or natives of the United Kingdom, British Overseas Territories, and Crown Dependencies. British national identity, the characteristics of British people and culture British English, the English language as spoken and written in the United Kingdom or, more broadly, throughout the British Isles Celtic Britons, an ancient ethno-linguistic group Brittonic languages, a branch of the Insular Celtic language family (formerly called British) Common Brittonic, an ancient language Other uses Brit(ish), a 2018 memoir by Afua Hirsch People or things associated with: Great Britain, an island United Kingdom, a sovereign state Kingdom of Great Britain (1707–1800) United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland (1801–1922) See also Terminology of the British Isles Alternative names for the British English (disambiguation) Britannic (disambiguation) British Isles Brit (disambiguation) Briton (disambiguation) Britain (disambiguation) Great Britain (disambiguation) British Empire United Kingdom (disambiguation)
William Nelson Joy (born November 8, 1954) is an American computer engineer and venture capitalist. He co-founded Sun Microsystems in 1982 along with Scott McNealy, Vinod Khosla, and Andy Bechtolsheim, and served as Chief Scientist and CTO at the company until 2003. He played an integral role in the early development of BSD UNIX while being a graduate student at Berkeley, and he is the original author of the vi text editor. He also wrote the 2000 essay "Why The Future Doesn't Need Us", in which he expressed deep concerns over the development of modern technologies. Joy was elected a member of the National Academy of Engineering (1999) for contributions to operating systems and networking software. Early career Joy was born in the Detroit suburb of Farmington Hills, Michigan, to William Joy, a school vice-principal and counselor, and Ruth Joy. He earned a Bachelor of Science in electrical engineering from the University of Michigan and a Master of Science in electrical engineering and computer science from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1979. While a graduate student at Berkeley, he worked for Fabry's Computer Systems Research Group CSRG on the Berkeley Software Distribution (BSD) version of the Unix operating system. He initially worked on a Pascal compiler left at Berkeley by Ken Thompson, who had been visiting the university when Joy had just started his graduate work. He later moved on to improving the Unix kernel, and also handled BSD distributions. Some of his most notable contributions were the ex and vi editors and the C shell. Joy's prowess as a computer programmer is legendary, with an oft-told anecdote that he wrote the vi editor in a weekend. Joy denies this assertion. A few of his other accomplishments have also been sometimes exaggerated; Eric Schmidt, CEO of Novell at the time, inaccurately reported during an interview in PBS's documentary Nerds 2.0.1 that Joy had personally rewritten the BSD kernel in a weekend. He also wrote cat -v in 1980 which Rob Pike and Brian W. Kernighan wrote went against Unix philosophy. According to a Salon article, during the early 1980s, DARPA had contracted the company Bolt, Beranek and Newman (BBN) to add TCP/IP to Berkeley UNIX. Joy had been instructed to plug BBN's stack into Berkeley Unix, but he refused to do so, as he had a low opinion of BBN's TCP/IP. So, Joy wrote his own high-performance TCP/IP stack. According to John Gage: Rob Gurwitz, who was working at BBN at the time, disputes this version of events. Sun Microsystems In 1982, after the firm had been going for six months, Joy, Sun's sixteenth employee, was brought in with full co-founder status at Sun Microsystems. At Sun, Joy was an inspiration for the development of NFS, the SPARC microprocessors, the Java programming language, Jini/JavaSpaces, and JXTA. In 1986, Joy was awarded a Grace Murray Hopper Award by the ACM for his work on the Berkeley UNIX Operating System. On September 9, 2003, Sun announced Joy was leaving the company and that he "is taking time to consider his next move and has no definite plans". Post-Sun activities In 1999, Joy co-founded a venture capital firm, HighBAR Ventures, with two Sun colleagues, Andy Bechtolsheim and Roy Thiele-Sardiña. In January 2005 he was named a partner in venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins. There, Joy has made several investments in green energy industries, even though he does not have any credentials in the field. He once said, "My method is to look at something that seems like a good idea and assume it's true". In 2011, he was inducted as a Fellow of the Computer History Museum for his work on the Berkeley Software Distribution (BSD) Unix system and the co-founding of Sun Microsystems. Technology concerns In 2000, Joy gained notoriety with the publication of his article in Wired magazine, "Why The Future Doesn't Need Us", in which he declared, in what some have described as a "neo-Luddite" position, that he was convinced that growing advances in genetic engineering and nanotechnology would bring risks to humanity. He argued that intelligent robots would replace humanity, at the very least in intellectual and social dominance, in the relatively near future. He supports and promotes the idea of abandonment of GNR (genetics, nanotechnology, and robotics) technologies, instead of going into an arms race between negative uses of the technology and defense against those negative uses (good nano-machines patrolling and defending against Grey goo "bad" nano-machines). This stance of broad relinquishment was criticized by technologists such as technological-singularity thinker Ray Kurzweil, who instead advocates fine-grained relinquishment and ethical guidelines. Joy was also criticized by The American Spectator, which characterized Joy's essay as a (possibly unwitting) rationale for statism. A bar-room discussion of these technologies with Ray Kurzweil started to set Joy's thinking along this path. He states in his essay that during the conversation, he became surprised that other serious scientists were considering such possibilities likely, and even more astounded at what he felt was a lack of consideration of the contingencies. After bringing the subject up with a few more acquaintances, he states that he was further alarmed by what he felt was that although many people considered these futures possible or probable, that very few of them shared as serious a concern for the dangers as he seemed to. This concern led to his in-depth examination of the issue and the positions of others in the scientific community on it, and eventually, to his current activities regarding it. Despite this, he is a venture capitalist, investing in technology companies. He has also raised a specialty venture fund to address the dangers of pandemic diseases, such as the H5N1 avian influenza and biological weapons. Joy's law Of management In his 2013 book Makers, author Chris Anderson credited Joy with establishing "Joy's law" based on a quip: "No matter who you are, most of the smartest people work for someone else [other than you]." His argument was that companies use an inefficient process by not hiring the best employees, only those they are able to hire. His "law" was a continuation of Friedrich Hayek's "The Use of Knowledge in Society" and warned that the competition outside of a company would always have the potential to be greater than the company itself. Of computing In terms of computing, Bill Joy devised a formula in 1983, also called Joy's law, stating that the peak computer speed doubles each year and thus is given by a simple function of time. Specifically, in which is the peak computer speed attained during year , expressed in MIPS. References External links An Introduction to Display Editing with Vi Bill Joy, video clips at Big Picture TV Excerpts from a 1999 Linux Magazine interview regarding the development of vi NerdTV interview (video, audio, and transcript available) - 30 June 2005 The Six Webs, 10 Years On - speech at MIT Emerging Technologies conference, September 29, 2005 Bill Joy at Dropping Knowledge, his answers to the 100 questions at Dropping Knowledge's Table of Free Voices event in Berlin, 2006. Computer History Museum, Sun Founders Panel, January 11, 2006 1954 births American billionaires American computer programmers American computer scientists American electrical engineers American venture capitalists BSD people Computer systems researchers Futurologists Grace Murray Hopper Award laureates Internet pioneers Kleiner Perkins people Living people Members of the United States National Academy of Engineering Open source advocates People from Farmington Hills, Michigan Sun Microsystems people UC Berkeley College of Engineering alumni University of California, Berkeley alumni University of Michigan College of Engineering alumni Unix people Wired (magazine) people
In inorganic chemistry, bicarbonate (IUPAC-recommended nomenclature: hydrogencarbonate) is an intermediate form in the deprotonation of carbonic acid. It is a polyatomic anion with the chemical formula . Bicarbonate serves a crucial biochemical role in the physiological pH buffering system. The term "bicarbonate" was coined in 1814 by the English chemist William Hyde Wollaston. The name lives on as a trivial name. Chemical properties The bicarbonate ion (hydrogencarbonate ion) is an anion with the empirical formula and a molecular mass of 61.01 daltons; it consists of one central carbon atom surrounded by three oxygen atoms in a trigonal planar arrangement, with a hydrogen atom attached to one of the oxygens. It is isoelectronic with nitric acid . The bicarbonate ion carries a negative one formal charge and is an amphiprotic species which has both acidic and basic properties. It is both the conjugate base of carbonic acid ; and the conjugate acid of , the carbonate ion, as shown by these equilibrium reactions: + 2 H2O + H2O + OH− H2CO3 + 2 OH− H2CO3 + 2 H2O + H3O+ + H2O + 2 H3O+. A bicarbonate salt forms when a positively charged ion attaches to the negatively charged oxygen atoms of the ion, forming an ionic compound. Many bicarbonates are soluble in water at standard temperature and pressure; in particular, sodium bicarbonate contributes to total dissolved solids, a common parameter for assessing water quality. Physiological role Bicarbonate () is a vital component of the pH buffering system of the human body (maintaining acid–base homeostasis). 70%–75% of CO2 in the body is converted into carbonic acid (H2CO3), which is the conjugate acid of and can quickly turn into it. With carbonic acid as the central intermediate species, bicarbonate – in conjunction with water, hydrogen ions, and carbon dioxide – forms this buffering system, which is maintained at the volatile equilibrium required to provide prompt resistance to pH changes in both the acidic and basic directions. This is especially important for protecting tissues of the central nervous system, where pH changes too far outside of the normal range in either direction could prove disastrous (see acidosis or alkalosis). Recently it has been also demonstrated that cellular bicarbonate metabolism can be regulated by mTORC1 signaling. Additionally, bicarbonate plays a key role in the digestive system. It raises the internal pH of the stomach, after highly acidic digestive juices have finished in their digestion of food. Bicarbonate also acts to regulate pH in the small intestine. It is released from the pancreas in response to the hormone secretin to neutralize the acidic chyme entering the duodenum from the stomach. Bicarbonate in the environment Bicarbonate is the dominant form of dissolved inorganic carbon in sea water, and in most fresh waters. As such it is an important sink in the carbon cycle. Some plants like Chara utilize carbonate and produce calcium carbonate (CaCO3) as result of biological metabolism. In freshwater ecology, strong photosynthetic activity by freshwater plants in daylight releases gaseous oxygen into the water and at the same time produces bicarbonate ions. These shift the pH upward until in certain circumstances the degree of alkalinity can become toxic to some organisms or can make other chemical constituents such as ammonia toxic. In darkness, when no photosynthesis occurs, respiration processes release carbon dioxide, and no new bicarbonate ions are produced, resulting in a rapid fall in pH. The flow of bicarbonate ions from rocks weathered by the carbonic acid in rainwater is an important part of the carbon cycle. Other uses The most common salt of the bicarbonate ion is sodium bicarbonate, NaHCO3, which is commonly known as baking soda. When heated or exposed to an acid such as acetic acid (vinegar), sodium bicarbonate releases carbon dioxide. This is used as a leavening agent in baking. Ammonium bicarbonate is used in digestive biscuit manufacture. Diagnostics In diagnostic medicine, the blood value of bicarbonate is one of several indicators of the state of acid–base physiology in the body. It is measured, along with chloride, potassium, and sodium, to assess electrolyte levels in an electrolyte panel test (which has Current Procedural Terminology, CPT, code 80051). The parameter standard bicarbonate concentration (SBCe) is the bicarbonate concentration in the blood at a PaCO2 of , full oxygen saturation and 36 °C. Bicarbonate compounds Sodium bicarbonate Potassium bicarbonate Caesium bicarbonate Magnesium bicarbonate Calcium bicarbonate Ammonium bicarbonate Carbonic acid See also Carbon dioxide Carbonate Carbonic anhydrase Hard water Arterial blood gas test References External links Amphoteric compounds Anions Bicarbonates
Bernard Allan Federko (born May 12, 1956) is a Canadian former professional ice hockey centre who played fourteen seasons in the National Hockey League from 1976 through 1990. Playing career Federko began playing hockey at a young age in his home town of Foam Lake, Saskatchewan. He was captain of the 1971 Bantam provincial champions. He also played Senior hockey with the local Foam Lake Flyers of the Fishing Lake Hockey League, winning the league scoring title as a bantam-aged player. Federko continued his career with the Saskatoon Blades of the WHL where he set and still holds the team record for assists. He played three seasons with the Blades, and in his final year with the club he led the league in assists and points in both the regular season and playoffs. Federko was drafted 7th overall by the St. Louis Blues in the 1976 NHL Amateur Draft. He started the next season with the Kansas City Blues of the Central Hockey League and was leading the league in points when he was called up mid-season to play 31 games with St. Louis. He scored three hat tricks in those 31 games. In the 1978–79 NHL season, Federko developed into a bona fide star, as he scored 95 points. Federko scored 100 points in a season four times, and was a consistent and underrated performer for the Blues. Federko scored at least 90 points in seven of the eight seasons between 1978 and 1986, and became the first player in NHL history to record at least 50 assists in 10 consecutive seasons. However, in an era when Wayne Gretzky was scoring 200 points a season, Federko never got the attention many felt he deserved. In 1986, in a poll conducted by GOAL magazine, he was named the most overlooked talent in hockey. His General Manager Ron Caron said he was "A great playmaker. He makes the average or above average player look like a star at times. He's such an unselfish player." On March 19, 1988, Federko became the 22nd NHL player to record 1000 career points. After a poor season for Federko in 1988–89, he was traded to the Detroit Red Wings with Tony McKegney for future Blues star Adam Oates, and Paul MacLean. In Detroit, Federko re-united with former Blues head coach Jacques Demers, but he had to play behind Steve Yzerman and did not get his desired ice time. After his lowest point output since his rookie season, Federko decided to retire after the 1989–90 season, having played exactly 1,000 NHL games with his final game on April 1, 1990. Post-NHL career Less than a year after retiring as a player, the Blues retired number 24 in his honor on March 16, 1991. Federko was eventually inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 2002, the first Hall of Famer to earn his credentials primarily as a Blue. Currently, Federko is a television color commentator for Bally Sports Midwest during Blues broadcasts. Federko was the head coach/general manager of the St. Louis Vipers roller hockey team of the Roller Hockey International for the 1993 and 1994 seasons. Career statistics Regular season and playoffs Awards Bob Brownridge Memorial Trophy (WCHL leading scorer) - 1976 Named to the WCHL First All-Star Team (1976) Named WCHL MVP (1976) Named to the CHL Second All-Star Team (1977) Won Ken McKenzie Trophy as CHL Rookie of the Year (1977) Played in the NHL All-Star Game (1980, 1981) Named NHL Player of the Week (For week ending December 3, 1984) Records St. Louis Blues team record for career games played (927) St. Louis Blues team record for career assists (721) St. Louis Blues team record for career points (1073) Shares St. Louis Blues team record for assists in one game (5 on February 27, 1988) St. Louis Blues team record for career playoff assists (66) First NHL player to get 50 assists in 10 consecutive seasons. See also Hockey Hall of Fame List of NHL players with 1,000 points List of NHL players with 1,000 games played List of NHL players with 100-point seasons List of NHL statistical leaders References Citations General references External links St. Louis Blues Website 1956 births Living people Canadian ice hockey centres Canadian people of Ukrainian descent Detroit Red Wings players Edmonton Oilers (WHA) draft picks Hockey Hall of Fame inductees Ice hockey people from Saskatchewan Kansas City Blues (ice hockey) players National Hockey League broadcasters National Hockey League first-round draft picks National Hockey League players with retired numbers Saskatoon Blades players St. Louis Blues announcers St. Louis Blues draft picks St. Louis Blues players World Hockey Association first round draft picks
Billion is a name for a large number. It may refer specifically to: 1,000,000,000 (, one thousand million), the short scale definition 1,000,000,000,000 (, one million million), the long scale definition Billion may also refer to: Film and TV Billions (TV series), a Showtime series Billions (film), a 1920 silent comedy Mr. Billion, a 1977 film by Jonathan Kaplan Music "Billions" a 2023 song by Caroline Polachek, from the album Desire, I Want to Turn Into You "Billions", a 2017 song by Russell Dickerson, from the album Yours "Billion", a 1996 song by Cardiacs, from the album Sing to God Other Billion (company), a Taiwanese modem manufacturer Jack Billion (1939–2023), American politician See also Long and short scales Names of large numbers Billion laughs, an XML parser vulnerability Golden billion, a Russian term for the wealthy people of the developed world Billon (disambiguation) BN (disambiguation)
Base or BASE may refer to: Brands and enterprises Base (mobile telephony provider), a Belgian mobile telecommunications operator Base CRM, an enterprise software company founded in 2009 with offices in Mountain View and Kraków, Poland Base Design, an international design, communications, audiovisual, copywriting and publishing firm Base FX, a visual effects and animation company founded in 2006 with studios in Beijing, Wuxi and Xiamen, China Budapest Aircraft Services, callsign BASE Computing BASE (search engine), Bielefeld Academic Search Engine , an HTML element Basically Available, Soft state, Eventual consistency (BASE), a consistency model Google Base, an online database provided by Google LibreOffice Base, LibreOffice's database module OpenOffice.org Base, OpenOffice.org's database module, also known as ooBase Mathematics Base of computation, commonly called radix, the number of distinct digits in a positional numeral system Base of a logarithm, the number whose logarithm is Base (exponentiation), the number in an expression of the form Base (geometry), a side of a plane figure (for example a triangle) or face of a solid Base (group theory), a sequence of elements not jointly stabilized by any nontrivial group element. Base (topology), a type of generating set for a topological space Organizations Backward Society Education, a Nepali non-governmental organization BASE (social centre), a self-managed social centre in Bristol, UK Beaverton Academy of Science and Engineering, part of Beaverton School District in Hillsboro, Oregon, US Bible Archaeology Search and Exploration Institute British Association for Screen Entertainment Brooklyn Academy of Science and the Environment, a high school in New York, US Science and technology Base (chemistry), a substance that can accept hydrogen ions (protons) Base, an attribute to medication in pure form, for example erythromycin base Base, one of the three terminals of a Bipolar junction transistor BASE experiment, an antiproton experiment at CERN Base pair, a pair of connected nucleotides on complementary DNA and RNA strands Beta-alumina solid electrolyte, a fast ion conductor material Nucleobase, in genetics, the parts of DNA and RNA involved in forming base pairs Social science Base (politics), a group of voters who almost always support a single party's candidates Base (social class), a lower social class Base and superstructure (Marxism), parts of society in Marxist theory Sports Base (baseball), a station that must be touched by a runner Base, a position in some cheerleading stunts BASE jumping, parachuting or wingsuit flying from a fixed structure or cliff Base, a variant name for the children's game darebase Other uses Base (character), character in Marvel Comics Base (EP), an album by South Korean singer Kim Jonghyun Base, Maharashtra, a village in India Rob Base, American rapper Base, or binder (material), a material that holds paint or other materials together Base, or foundation (architecture), the lowest and supporting layer of a structure Base, or foundation (cosmetics), a cosmetic applied to the face Base, in heraldry, the lower part of the shield Base, or pedestal, a supporting feature of a statue or other item Cooking base, a concentrated flavouring compound Military base, or non-military base camp, a bivouac which provides shelter, military equipment and personnel See also Base camp (disambiguation) Bases (disambiguation) Basis (disambiguation) Bass (disambiguation) Bottom (disambiguation) Radix (disambiguation) The Base (disambiguation)
Bar Kokhba is a double album by John Zorn, recorded between 1994 and 1996. It features music from Zorn's Masada project, rearranged for small ensembles. It also features the original soundtrack from The Art of Remembrance – Simon Wiesenthal, a film by Hannah Heer and Werner Schmiedel (1994–95). Reception The AllMusic review by Marc Gilman noted: "While some compositions retain their original structure and sound, some are expanded and probed by Zorn's arrangements, and resemble avant-garde classical music more than jazz. But this is the beauty of the album; the ensembles provide a forum for Zorn to expand his compositions. The album consistently impresses." Track listing All compositions by John Zorn Disc One "Gevurah" – 6:55 "Nezikin" – 1:51 "Mahshav" – 4:33 "Rokhev" – 3:10 "Abidan" – 5:19 "Sheloshim" – 5:03 "Hath-Arob" – 2:25 "Paran" – 4:48 "Mahlah" – 7:48 "Socoh" – 4:07 "Yechida" – 8:24 "Bikkurim" – 3:25 "Idalah-Abal" – 5:04 Disc Two "Tannaim" – 4:38 "Nefesh" – 3:33 "Abidan" – 3:13 "Mo'ed" – 4:59 "Maskil" – 4:41 "Mishpatim" – 6:46 "Sansanah" – 6:56 "Shear-Jashub" – 2:06 "Mahshav" – 4:50 "Sheloshim" – 6:45 "Mochin" – 13:11 "Karaim" – 3:39 Recorded at Baby Monster Studios, New York City in August 1994, December 1995 and March 1996 Personnel John Zorn – Producer Mark Feldman (2,4,6,10,12,14,16,20,21,25) – violin Erik Friedlander (2,4,6,10,12,14,16,21,25) – cello Greg Cohen (2,4,6,9,10,12,14,16,18,21,25) – bass Marc Ribot (9,18,24) – guitar Anthony Coleman (1,3,11,17,19) – piano David Krakauer (3,8) – clarinets John Medeski (5,7,8,13,15,17,20,22,23) – organ, piano Mark Dresser (1,15,19) – bass Kenny Wollesen (1,2,15,19,23) – drums Chris Speed (5,13,20,23) – clarinet Dave Douglas (23) – trumpet References 1996 albums Tzadik Records albums Albums produced by John Zorn Bar Kokhba albums Jewish music albums
This is a list of the Byzantine emperors from the foundation of Constantinople in 330 AD, which marks the conventional start of the Eastern Roman Empire, to its fall to the Ottoman Empire in 1453 AD. Only the emperors who were recognized as legitimate rulers and exercised sovereign authority are included, to the exclusion of junior co-emperors (symbasileis) who never attained the status of sole or senior ruler, as well as of the various usurpers or rebels who claimed the imperial title. The following list starts with Constantine the Great, the first Christian emperor, who rebuilt the city of Byzantium as an imperial capital, Constantinople, and who was regarded by the later emperors as the model ruler. Modern historians distinguish this later phase of the Roman Empire as Byzantine due to the imperial seat moving from Rome to Byzantium, the Empire's integration of Christianity, and the predominance of Greek instead of Latin. The Byzantine Empire was the direct legal continuation of the eastern half of the Roman Empire following the division of the Roman Empire in 395. Emperors listed below up to Theodosius I in 395 were sole or joint rulers of the entire Roman Empire. The Western Roman Empire continued until 476. Byzantine emperors considered themselves to be Roman emperors in direct succession from Augustus; the term "Byzantine" became convention in Western historiography in the 19th century. The use of the title "Roman Emperor" by those ruling from Constantinople was not contested until after the papal coronation of the Frankish Charlemagne as Holy Roman Emperor (25 December 800). In practice, according to the Hellenistic political system, the Byzantine emperor had been given total power through God to shape the state and its subjects, he was the last authority and legislator of the empire and all his work was in imitation of the sacred kingdom of God, also according to the Christian principles, he was the ultimate benefecator and protector of his people. The title of all Emperors preceding Heraclius was officially "Augustus", although other titles such as Dominus were also used. Their names were preceded by Imperator Caesar and followed by Augustus. Following Heraclius, the title commonly became the Greek Basileus (Gr. Βασιλεύς), which had formerly meant sovereign, though Augustus continued to be used in a reduced capacity. Following the establishment of the rival Holy Roman Empire in Western Europe, the title "Autokrator" (Gr. Αὐτοκράτωρ) was increasingly used. In later centuries, the Emperor could be referred to by Western Christians as the "Emperor of the Greeks". Towards the end of the Empire, the standard imperial formula of the Byzantine ruler was "[Emperor's name] in Christ, Emperor and Autocrat of the Romans" (cf. Ῥωμαῖοι and Rûm). Dynasties were a common tradition and structure for rulers and government systems in the medieval period. The principle or formal requirements for hereditary succession, however, was not a formal part of the Empire's governance, hereditary succession was a custom and tradition, carried on as habit and benefitted from some sense of legitimacy, but not as a "rule" or inviolable or unchallengeable requirement of for office at the time. See also Family tree of Byzantine emperors List of Roman emperors List of Trapezuntine emperors List of Roman usurpers List of Byzantine usurpers Succession to the Byzantine Empire List of Roman and Byzantine empresses List of Byzantine emperors of Armenian origin Family tree of Roman emperors History of the Byzantine Empire Notes References Byzantine Empire Byzantine emperors Emperors
Black Flag or black flag may refer to: Flags The Black Standard, a legendary flag in Islamic tradition The Anarchist black flag The Jolly Roger, flag associated with piracy The Pan-African flag, a trans-national unity symbol Black flag (racing) Arts, entertainment, and media Black Flag (band), an American hardcore punk band Black Flag (Ektomorf album), a 2012 album by Ektomorf Black Flag (Machine Gun Kelly mixtape), 2013 "Black Flag" (song), a 1992 song by King's X Black Flag (newspaper), a publication in Britain Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag, 2013 videogame by Ubisoft Black Flags: The Rise of ISIS, a 2015 Pulitzer prize-winning book by Joby Warrick Places Black Flag, Western Australia, an abandoned town named after the Black Flag gold mine and farm Other uses Ali Charaf Damache, a terror suspect with the nom de guerre "the Black Flag" Black Flag (insecticide) Black Flag Army, a militia in Vietnam and southern China, 1860s-1885 Chernoe Znamia, a 20th-century Russian anarchist organisation Ferraria crispa, a plant also known as black flag
Brian Wilson Kernighan (; born January 30, 1942) is a Canadian computer scientist. He worked at Bell Labs and contributed to the development of Unix alongside Unix creators Ken Thompson and Dennis Ritchie. Kernighan's name became widely known through co-authorship of the first book on the C programming language (The C Programming Language) with Dennis Ritchie. Kernighan affirmed that he had no part in the design of the C language ("it's entirely Dennis Ritchie's work"). He authored many Unix programs, including ditroff. Kernighan is coauthor of the AWK and AMPL programming languages. The "K" of K&R C and of AWK both stand for "Kernighan". In collaboration with Shen Lin he devised well-known heuristics for two NP-complete optimization problems: graph partitioning and the travelling salesman problem. In a display of authorial equity, the former is usually called the Kernighan–Lin algorithm, while the latter is known as the Lin–Kernighan heuristic. Kernighan has been a professor of computer science at Princeton University since 2000 and is the director of undergraduate studies in the department of computer science. In 2015, he co-authored the book The Go Programming Language. Early life and education Kernighan was born in Toronto. He attended the University of Toronto between 1960 and 1964, earning his bachelor's degree in engineering physics. He received his Ph.D. in electrical engineering from Princeton University in 1969, completing a doctoral dissertation titled "Some graph partitioning problems related to program segmentation" under the supervision of Peter G. Weiner. Career and research Kernighan has held a professorship in the department of computer science at Princeton since 2000. Each fall he teaches a course called "Computers in Our World", which introduces the fundamentals of computing to non-majors. Kernighan was the software editor for Prentice Hall International. His "Software Tools" series spread the essence of "C/Unix thinking" with makeovers for BASIC, FORTRAN, and Pascal, and most notably his "Ratfor" (rational FORTRAN) was put in the public domain. He has said that if stranded on an island with only one programming language it would have to be C. Kernighan coined the term "Unix" and helped popularize Thompson's Unix philosophy. Kernighan is also known as a coiner of the expression "What You See Is All You Get" (WYSIAYG), which is a sarcastic variant of the original "What You See Is What You Get" (WYSIWYG). Kernighan's term is used to indicate that WYSIWYG systems might throw away information in a document that could be useful in other contexts. In 1972, Kernighan described memory management in strings using "hello" and "world", in the B programming language, which became the iconic example we know today. Kernighan's original 1978 implementation of Hello, World! was sold at The Algorithm Auction, the world's first auction of computer algorithms. In 1996, Kernighan taught CS50 which is the Harvard University introductory course in computer science. Kernighan was an influence on David J. Malan who subsequently taught the course and scaled it up to run at multiple universities and in multiple digital formats. Kernighan was elected a member of the National Academy of Engineering in 2002 for contributions to software and to programming languages. He was also elected a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2019. In 2022 Kernighan stated that he was actively working on improvements to the AWK programming language, which he took part in creating in 1977. Books and reports The Elements of Programming Style, with P. J. Plauger Software Tools, a book and set of tools for Ratfor, co-created in part with P. J. Plauger Software Tools in Pascal, a book and set of tools for Pascal, with P. J. Plauger The C Programming Language, with C creator Dennis Ritchie, the first book on C The Practice of Programming, with Rob Pike The Unix Programming Environment, a tutorial book, with Rob Pike "Why Pascal is Not My Favorite Programming Language", a popular criticism of Niklaus Wirth's Pascal. Some parts of the criticism are obsolete due to ISO 7185 (Programming Languages - Pascal); the criticism was written before ISO 7185 was created. (AT&T Computing Science Technical Report #100) Algorithms 1972: The first documented "Hello, world!" program, in Kernighan's "A Tutorial Introduction to the Language B" 1973: ditroff, or "device independent troff", which allowed troff to be used with any device 1974: The eqn typesetting language for troff, with Lorinda Cherry 1976: Ratfor 1977: The m4 macro processing language, with Dennis Ritchie 1977: The AWK programming language, with Alfred Aho and Peter J. Weinberger, and its book The AWK Programming Language 1985: The AMPL programming language 1988: The pic typesetting language for troff Publications The Elements of Programming Style (1974, 1978) with P. J. Plauger Software Tools (1976) with P. J. Plauger The C Programming Language (1978, 1988) with Dennis M. Ritchie Software Tools in Pascal (1981) with P. J. Plauger The Unix Programming Environment (1984) with Rob Pike The AWK Programming Language (1988) with Alfred Aho and Peter J. Weinberger The Practice of Programming (1999) with Rob Pike AMPL: A Modeling Language for Mathematical Programming, 2nd ed. (2003) with Robert Fourer and David Gay D is for Digital: What a well-informed person should know about computers and communications (2011) The Go Programming Language (2015) with Alan Donovan Understanding the Digital World: What You Need to Know about Computers, the Internet, Privacy, and Security (2017) Millions, Billions, Zillions: Defending Yourself in a World of Too Many Numbers (2018) UNIX: A History and a Memoir (2019) Programming setup Kernighan uses a 13-inch MacBook Air as his primary device. Along with this, from time to time, he uses an iMac in his office. He, most of the time, uses Sam as his text editor. See also List of pioneers in computer science References External links Brian Kernighan's home page at Bell Labs Lex Fridman Podcast #109: Brian Kernighan - UNIX, C, AWK, AMPL, and Go Programming "Why Pascal is Not My Favorite Programming Language" — By Brian Kernighan, AT&T Bell Labs, 2 April 1981 "Leap In and Try Things" — Interview with Brian Kernighan — on "Harmony at Work Blog", October 2009. An Interview with Brian Kernighan — By Mihai Budiu, for PC Report Romania, August 2000 – Interview by Video — TechNetCast At Bell Labs: Dennis Ritchie and Brian Kernighan (1999-05-14) Video (Princeton University, September 7, 2003) — "Assembly for the Class of 2007: 'D is for Digital and Why It Matters'" A Descent into Limbo by Brian Kernighan Photos of Brian Kernighan Video interview with Brian Kernighan for Princeton Startup TV (2012-03-20) The Setup, Brian Kernighan 1942 births Living people Canadian computer scientists Canadian computer programmers Computer programmers Inferno (operating system) people Canadian people of Irish descent Writers from Toronto Plan 9 people Princeton University School of Engineering and Applied Science alumni Princeton University faculty Programming language designers Scientists at Bell Labs Canadian technology writers University of Toronto alumni Unix people C (programming language) Members of the United States National Academy of Engineering Berkman Fellows Scientists from Toronto
In Norse mythology, Bifröst (), also called Bilröst, is a burning rainbow bridge that reaches between Midgard (Earth) and Asgard, the realm of the gods. The bridge is attested as Bilröst in the Poetic Edda; compiled in the 13th century from earlier traditional sources, and as Bifröst in the Prose Edda; written in the 13th century by Snorri Sturluson, and in the poetry of skalds. Both the Poetic Edda and the Prose Edda alternately refer to the bridge as Ásbrú (Old Norse "Æsir's bridge"). According to the Prose Edda, the bridge ends in heaven at Himinbjörg, the residence of the god Heimdall, who guards it from the jötnar. The bridge's destruction during Ragnarök by the forces of Muspell is foretold. Scholars have proposed that the bridge may have originally represented the Milky Way and have noted parallels between the bridge and another bridge in Norse mythology, Gjallarbrú. Etymology Scholar Andy Orchard suggests that Bifröst may mean "shimmering path." He notes that the first element of Bilröst—bil (meaning "a moment")—"suggests the fleeting nature of the rainbow," which he connects to the first element of Bifröst—the Old Norse verb bifa (meaning "to shimmer" or "to shake")—noting that the element evokes notions of the "lustrous sheen" of the bridge. Austrian Germanist Rudolf Simek says that Bifröst either means "the swaying road to heaven" (also citing bifa) or, if Bilröst is the original form of the two (which Simek says is likely), "the fleetingly glimpsed rainbow" (possibly connected to bil, perhaps meaning "moment, weak point"). Attestations Two poems in the Poetic Edda and two books in the Prose Edda provide information about the bridge: Poetic Edda In the Poetic Edda, the bridge is mentioned in the poems Grímnismál and Fáfnismál, where it is referred to as Bilröst. In one of two stanzas in the poem Grímnismál that mentions the bridge, Grímnir (the god Odin in disguise) provides the young Agnarr with cosmological knowledge, including that Bilröst is the best of bridges. Later in Grímnismál, Grímnir notes that Asbrú "burns all with flames" and that, every day, the god Thor wades through the waters of Körmt and Örmt and the two Kerlaugar: In Fáfnismál, the dying wyrm Fafnir tells the hero Sigurd that, during the events of Ragnarök, bearing spears, gods will meet at Óskópnir. From there, the gods will cross Bilröst, which will break apart as they cross over it, causing their horses to dredge through an immense river. Prose Edda The bridge is mentioned in the Prose Edda books Gylfaginning and Skáldskaparmál, where it is referred to as Bifröst. In chapter 13 of Gylfaginning, Gangleri (King Gylfi in disguise) asks the enthroned figure of High what way exists between heaven and earth. Laughing, High replies that the question isn't an intelligent one, and goes on to explain that the gods built a bridge from heaven and earth. He incredulously asks Gangleri if he has not heard the story before. High says that Gangleri must have seen it, and notes that Gangleri may call it a rainbow. High says that the bridge consists of three colors, has great strength, "and is built with art and skill to a greater extent than other constructions." High notes that, although the bridge is strong, it will break when "Muspell's lads" attempt to cross it, and their horses will have to make do with swimming over "great rivers." Gangleri says that it doesn't seem that the gods "built the bridge in good faith if it is liable to break, considering that they can do as they please." High responds that the gods do not deserve blame for the breaking of the bridge, for "there is nothing in this world that will be secure when Muspell's sons attack." In chapter 15 of Gylfaginning, Just-As-High says that Bifröst is also called Asbrú, and that every day the gods ride their horses across it (with the exception of Thor, who instead wades through the boiling waters of the rivers Körmt and Örmt) to reach Urðarbrunnr, a holy well where the gods have their court. As a reference, Just-As-High quotes the second of the two stanzas in Grímnismál that mention the bridge (see above). Gangleri asks if fire burns over Bifröst. High says that the red in the bridge is burning fire, and, without it, the frost jotnar and mountain jotnar would "go up into heaven" if anyone who wanted could cross Bifröst. High adds that, in heaven, "there are many beautiful places" and that "everywhere there has divine protection around it." In chapter 17, High tells Gangleri that the location of Himinbjörg "stands at the edge of heaven where Bifrost reaches heaven." While describing the god Heimdallr in chapter 27, High says that Heimdallr lives in Himinbjörg by Bifröst, and guards the bridge from mountain jotnar while sitting at the edge of heaven. In chapter 34, High quotes the first of the two Grímnismál stanzas that mention the bridge. In chapter 51, High foretells the events of Ragnarök. High says that, during Ragnarök, the sky will split open, and from the split will ride forth the "sons of Muspell". When the "sons of Muspell" ride over Bifröst it will break, "as was said above." In the Prose Edda book Skáldskaparmál, the bridge receives a single mention. In chapter 16, a work by the 10th century skald Úlfr Uggason is provided, where Bifröst is referred to as "the powers' way." Theories In his translation of the Prose Edda, Henry Adams Bellows comments that the Grímnismál stanza mentioning Thor and the bridge stanza may mean that "Thor has to go on foot in the last days of the destruction, when the bridge is burning. Another interpretation, however, is that when Thor leaves the heavens (i.e., when a thunder-storm is over) the rainbow-bridge becomes hot in the sun." John Lindow points to a parallel between Bifröst, which he notes is "a bridge between earth and heaven, or earth and the world of the gods", and the bridge Gjallarbrú, "a bridge between earth and the underworld, or earth and the world of the dead." Several scholars have proposed that Bifröst may represent the Milky Way. Adaptations In the final scene of Richard Wagner's 1869 opera Das Rheingold, the god Froh summons a rainbow bridge, over which the gods cross to enter Valhalla. The Bifröst appears in comic books associated with the Marvel Comics character Thor and in subsequent adaptations of those comic books. In the Marvel Cinematic Universe film Thor, Jane Foster describes the Bifröst as an Einstein–Rosen bridge, which functions as a means of transportation across space in a short period of time. Notes References External links Locations in Norse mythology Mythological bridges Rainbows in culture
<noinclude> Breiðablik (sometimes anglicised as Breithablik or Breidablik) is the home of Baldr in Nordic mythology. Meaning The word has been variously translated as 'broad sheen', 'Broad gleam', 'Broad-gleaming' or 'the far-shining one', Attestations Grímismál The Eddic poem Grímnismál describes Breiðablik as the fair home of Baldr: Gylfaginning In Snorri Sturluson's Gylfaginning, Breiðablik is described in a list of places in heaven, identified by some scholars as Asgard: Later in the work, when Snorri describes Baldr, he gives another description, citing Grímnismál, though he does not name the poem: Interpretation and discussion The name of Breiðablik has been noted to link with Baldr's attributes of light and beauty. Similarities have been drawn between the description of Breiðablik in Grímnismál and Heorot in Beowulf, which are both free of 'baleful runes' ( and respectively). In Beowulf, the lack of refers to the absence of crimes being committed, and therefore both halls have been proposed to be sanctuaries. In popular culture Breidablik is a sacred weapon in Fire Emblem Heroes that the Summoner uses to summon Heroes coming from different Fire Emblem games. In the PlayStation game Xenogears, Bledavik is the name of the capital city of the desert kingdom of Aveh on the Ignas continent. See also Álfheimr, the home of Freyr Nóatún, the home of Njörðr Þrúðvangr, the home of Thor Citations Bibliography Primary Secondary Baldr Locations in Norse mythology
Bilskirnir (Old Norse "lightning-crack") is the hall of the god Thor in Norse mythology. Here he lives with his wife Sif and their children. According to Grímnismál, the hall is the greatest of buildings and contains 540 rooms, located in Asgard, as are all the dwellings of the gods, in the kingdom of Þrúðheimr (or Þrúðvangar according to Gylfaginning and Ynglinga saga). Modern influence The hall inspired the name of an Asgard starship commanded by Supreme Commander Thor, in the television series Stargate SG-1 named Beliskner. There is a NS / pagan black metal band from Hesse, Germany named Bilskirnir. Notes References Orchard, Andy (1997). Dictionary of Norse Myth and Legend. Cassell. Locations in Norse mythology Thor
In Norse mythology, Brísingamen (or Brísinga men) is the torc or necklace of the goddess Freyja. The name is an Old Norse compound brísinga-men whose second element is men "(ornamental) neck-ring (of precious metal), torc". The etymology of the first element is uncertain. It has been derived from Old Norse brísingr, a poetic term for "fire" or "amber" mentioned in the anonymous versified word-lists (þulur) appended to many manuscripts of the Prose Edda, making Brísingamen "gleaming torc", "sunny torc", or the like. However, Brísingr can also be an ethnonym, in which case Brísinga men is "torque of the Brísings"; the Old English parallel in Beowulf supports this derivation, though who the Brísings (Old Norse Brísingar) may have been remains unknown. Attestations Beowulf Brísingamen is referred to in the Anglo-Saxon epic Beowulf as Brosinga mene. The brief mention in Beowulf is as follows (trans. by Howell Chickering, 1977): The Beowulf poet is clearly referring to the legends about Theoderic the Great. The Þiðrekssaga tells that the warrior Heime (Háma in Old English) takes sides against Ermanaric ("Eormanric"), king of the Goths, and has to flee his kingdom after robbing him; later in life, Hama enters a monastery and gives them all his stolen treasure. However, this saga makes no mention of the great necklace. Poetic Edda In the poem Þrymskviða of the Poetic Edda, Þrymr, the king of the jǫtnar, steals Thor's hammer, Mjölnir. Freyja lends Loki her falcon cloak to search for it; but upon returning, Loki tells Freyja that Þrymr has hidden the hammer and demanded to marry her in return. Freyja is so wrathful that all the Æsir’s halls beneath her are shaken and the necklace Brísingamen breaks off from her neck. Later Thor borrows Brísingamen when he dresses up as Freyja to go to the wedding at Jǫtunheimr. Prose Edda Húsdrápa, a skaldic poem partially preserved in the Prose Edda, relates the story of the theft of Brísingamen by Loki. One day when Freyja wakes up and finds Brísingamen missing, she enlists the help of Heimdallr to help her search for it. Eventually they find the thief, who turns out to be Loki who has transformed himself into a seal. Heimdallr turns into a seal as well and fights Loki. After a lengthy battle at Singasteinn, Heimdallr wins and returns Brísingamen to Freyja. Snorri Sturluson quoted this old poem in Skáldskaparmál, saying that because of this legend Heimdallr is called "Seeker of Freyja's Necklace" (Skáldskaparmál, section 8) and Loki is called "Thief of Brísingamen" (Skáldskaparmál, section 16). A similar story appears in the later Sörla þáttr, where Heimdallr does not appear. Sörla þáttr Sörla þáttr is a short story in the later and extended version of the Saga of Olaf Tryggvason in the manuscript of the Flateyjarbók, which was written and compiled by two Christian priests, Jon Thordson and Magnus Thorhalson, in the late 14th century. In the end of the story, the arrival of Christianity dissolves the old curse that traditionally was to endure until Ragnarök. The battle of Högni and Heðinn is recorded in several medieval sources, including the skaldic poem Ragnarsdrápa, Skáldskaparmál (section 49), and Gesta Danorum: king Högni's daughter, Hildr, is kidnapped by king Heðinn. When Högni comes to fight Heðinn on an island, Hildr comes to offer her father a necklace on behalf of Heðinn for peace; but the two kings still battle, and Hildr resurrects the fallen to make them fight until Ragnarök. None of these earlier sources mentions Freyja or king Olaf Tryggvason, the historical figure who Christianized Norway and Iceland in the 10th Century. Archaeological record A Völva was buried with considerable splendour in Hagebyhöga in Östergötland, Sweden. In addition to being buried with her wand, she had received great riches which included horses, a wagon and an Arabian bronze pitcher. There was also a silver pendant, which represents a woman with a broad necklace around her neck. This kind of necklace was only worn by the most prominent women during the Iron Age and some have interpreted it as Freyja's necklace Brísingamen. The pendant may represent Freyja herself. Modern influence Alan Garner wrote a children's fantasy novel called The Weirdstone of Brisingamen, published in 1960, about an enchanted teardrop bracelet. Diana Paxson's novel Brisingamen features Freyja and her bracelet. Black Phoenix Alchemy Lab has a perfumed oil scent named Brisingamen. Freyja's necklace Brisingamen features prominently in Betsy Tobin's novel Iceland, where the necklace is seen to have significant protective powers. The Brisingamen feature as a major item in Joel Rosenberg's Keepers of the Hidden Ways series of books. In it, there are seven jewels that were created for the necklace by the Dwarfs and given to the Norse goddess. She in turn eventually split them up into the seven separate jewels and hid them throughout the realm, as together they hold the power to shape the universe by its holder. The book's plot is about discovering one of them and deciding what to do with the power they allow while avoiding Loki and other Norse characters. In Christopher Paolini's The Inheritance Cycle, the word "brisingr" means fire. This is probably a distillation of the word brisinga. Ursula Le Guin's short story Semley's Necklace, the first part of her novel Rocannon's World, is a retelling of the Brisingamen story on an alien planet. Brisingamen is represented as a card in the Yu-Gi-Oh! Trading Card Game, "Nordic Relic Brisingamen". Brisingamen was part of MMORPG Ragnarok Online lore, which is ranked as "God item". The game is heavily based from Norse mythology. In the Firefly Online game, one of the planets of the Himinbjörg system (which features planets named after figures from Germanic mythology) is named Brisingamen. It is third from the star, and has moons named Freya, Beowulf, and Alberich. The Brisingamen is an item that can be found and equipped in the video game, Castlevania: Lament of Innocence. In the French comics Freaks' Squeele, the character of Valkyrie accesses her costume change ability by touching a decorative torque necklace affixed to her forehead, named Brizingamen. See also Rings in Germanic cultures Necklace of Harmonia, a necklace owned by the Greek goddess Harmonia, a daughter of Aphrodite References Artifacts in Norse mythology Freyja Torcs Mythological clothing Individual necklaces
In mathematics, the Borsuk–Ulam theorem states that every continuous function from an n-sphere into Euclidean n-space maps some pair of antipodal points to the same point. Here, two points on a sphere are called antipodal if they are in exactly opposite directions from the sphere's center. Formally: if is continuous then there exists an such that: . The case can be illustrated by saying that there always exist a pair of opposite points on the Earth's equator with the same temperature. The same is true for any circle. This assumes the temperature varies continuously in space, which is, however, not always the case. The case is often illustrated by saying that at any moment, there is always a pair of antipodal points on the Earth's surface with equal temperatures and equal barometric pressures, assuming that both parameters vary continuously in space. Since temperature, pressure or other such physical variables do not necessarily vary continuously, the predictions of the theorem are unlikely to be true in some necessary sense (as following from a mathematical necessity). The Borsuk–Ulam theorem has several equivalent statements in terms of odd functions. Recall that is the n-sphere and is the n-ball: If is a continuous odd function, then there exists an such that: . If is a continuous function which is odd on (the boundary of ), then there exists an such that: . History According to , the first historical mention of the statement of the Borsuk–Ulam theorem appears in . The first proof was given by , where the formulation of the problem was attributed to Stanisław Ulam. Since then, many alternative proofs have been found by various authors, as collected by . Equivalent statements The following statements are equivalent to the Borsuk–Ulam theorem. With odd functions A function is called odd (aka antipodal or antipode-preserving) if for every : . The Borsuk–Ulam theorem is equivalent to the following statement: A continuous odd function from an n-sphere into Euclidean n-space has a zero. PROOF: If the theorem is correct, then it is specifically correct for odd functions, and for an odd function, iff . Hence every odd continuous function has a zero. For every continuous function , the following function is continuous and odd: . If every odd continuous function has a zero, then has a zero, and therefore, . Hence the theorem is correct. With retractions Define a retraction as a function The Borsuk–Ulam theorem is equivalent to the following claim: there is no continuous odd retraction. Proof: If the theorem is correct, then every continuous odd function from must include 0 in its range. However, so there cannot be a continuous odd function whose range is . Conversely, if it is incorrect, then there is a continuous odd function with no zeroes. Then we can construct another odd function by: since has no zeroes, is well-defined and continuous. Thus we have a continuous odd retraction. Proofs 1-dimensional case The 1-dimensional case can easily be proved using the intermediate value theorem (IVT). Let be the odd real-valued continuous function on a circle defined by . Pick an arbitrary . If then we are done. Otherwise, without loss of generality, But Hence, by the IVT, there is a point between and at which . General case Algebraic topological proof Assume that is an odd continuous function with (the case is treated above, the case can be handled using basic covering theory). By passing to orbits under the antipodal action, we then get an induced continuous function between real projective spaces, which induces an isomorphism on fundamental groups. By the Hurewicz theorem, the induced ring homomorphism on cohomology with coefficients [where denotes the field with two elements], sends to . But then we get that is sent to , a contradiction. One can also show the stronger statement that any odd map has odd degree and then deduce the theorem from this result. Combinatorial proof The Borsuk–Ulam theorem can be proved from Tucker's lemma. Let be a continuous odd function. Because g is continuous on a compact domain, it is uniformly continuous. Therefore, for every , there is a such that, for every two points of which are within of each other, their images under g are within of each other. Define a triangulation of with edges of length at most . Label each vertex of the triangulation with a label in the following way: The absolute value of the label is the index of the coordinate with the highest absolute value of g: . The sign of the label is the sign of g, so that: . Because g is odd, the labeling is also odd: . Hence, by Tucker's lemma, there are two adjacent vertices with opposite labels. Assume w.l.o.g. that the labels are . By the definition of l, this means that in both and , coordinate #1 is the largest coordinate: in this coordinate is positive while in it is negative. By the construction of the triangulation, the distance between and is at most , so in particular (since and have opposite signs) and so . But since the largest coordinate of is coordinate #1, this means that for each . So , where is some constant depending on and the norm which you have chosen. The above is true for every ; since is compact there must hence be a point u in which . Corollaries No subset of is homeomorphic to The ham sandwich theorem: For any compact sets A1, ..., An in we can always find a hyperplane dividing each of them into two subsets of equal measure. Equivalent results Above we showed how to prove the Borsuk–Ulam theorem from Tucker's lemma. The converse is also true: it is possible to prove Tucker's lemma from the Borsuk–Ulam theorem. Therefore, these two theorems are equivalent. Generalizations In the original theorem, the domain of the function f is the unit n-sphere (the boundary of the unit n-ball). In general, it is true also when the domain of f is the boundary of any open bounded symmetric subset of containing the origin (Here, symmetric means that if x is in the subset then -x is also in the subset). Consider the function A which maps a point to its antipodal point: Note that The original theorem claims that there is a point x in which In general, this is true also for every function A for which However, in general this is not true for other functions A. See also Topological combinatorics Necklace splitting problem Ham sandwich theorem Kakutani's theorem (geometry) Imre Bárány Notes References External links Theorems in algebraic topology Combinatorics Theory of continuous functions Theorems in topology
Bragi (; Old Norse: ) is the skaldic god of poetry in Norse mythology. Etymology The theonym Bragi probably stems from the masculine noun bragr, which can be translated in Old Norse as 'poetry' (cf. Icelandic bragur 'poem, melody, wise') or as 'the first, noblest' (cf. poetic Old Norse bragnar 'chiefs, men', bragningr 'king'). It is unclear whether the theonym semantically derives from the first meaning or the second. A connection has been also suggested with the Old Norse bragarfull, the cup drunk in solemn occasions with the taking of vows. The word is usually taken to semantically derive from the second meaning of bragr ('first one, noblest'). A relation with the Old English term brego ('lord, prince') remains uncertain. Bragi regularly appears as a personal name in Old Norse and Old Swedish sources, which according to linguist Jan de Vries might indicate the secondary character of the god's name. Attestations Snorri Sturluson writes in the Gylfaginning after describing Odin, Thor, and Baldr: In Skáldskaparmál Snorri writes: That Bragi is Odin's son is clearly mentioned only here and in some versions of a list of the sons of Odin (see Sons of Odin). But "wish-son" in stanza 16 of the Lokasenna could mean "Odin's son" and is translated by Hollander as Odin's kin. Bragi's mother is possibly the giantess Gunnlod. If Bragi's mother is Frigg, then Frigg is somewhat dismissive of Bragi in the Lokasenna in stanza 27 when Frigg complains that if she had a son in Ægir's hall as brave as Baldr then Loki would have to fight for his life. In that poem Bragi at first forbids Loki to enter the hall but is overruled by Odin. Loki then gives a greeting to all gods and goddesses who are in the hall save to Bragi. Bragi generously offers his sword, horse, and an arm ring as peace gift but Loki only responds by accusing Bragi of cowardice, of being the most afraid to fight of any of the Æsir and Elves within the hall. Bragi responds that if they were outside the hall, he would have Loki's head, but Loki only repeats the accusation. When Bragi's wife Iðunn attempts to calm Bragi, Loki accuses her of embracing her brother's slayer, a reference to matters that have not survived. It may be that Bragi had slain Iðunn's brother. A passage in the Poetic Edda poem Sigrdrífumál describes runes being graven on the sun, on the ear of one of the sun-horses and on the hoofs of the other, on Sleipnir's teeth, on bear's paw, on eagle's beak, on wolf's claw, and on several other things including on Bragi's tongue. Then the runes are shaved off and the shavings are mixed with mead and sent abroad so that Æsir have some, Elves have some, Vanir have some, and Men have some, these being speech runes and birth runes, ale runes, and magic runes. The meaning of this is obscure. The first part of Snorri Sturluson's Skáldskaparmál is a dialogue between Ægir and Bragi about the nature of poetry, particularly skaldic poetry. Bragi tells the origin of the mead of poetry from the blood of Kvasir and how Odin obtained this mead. He then goes on to discuss various poetic metaphors known as kennings. Snorri Sturluson clearly distinguishes the god Bragi from the mortal skald Bragi Boddason, whom he often mentions separately. The appearance of Bragi in the Lokasenna indicates that if these two Bragis were originally the same, they have become separated for that author also, or that chronology has become very muddled and Bragi Boddason has been relocated to mythological time. Compare the appearance of the Welsh Taliesin in the second branch of the Mabinogi. Legendary chronology sometimes does become muddled. Whether Bragi the god originally arose as a deified version of Bragi Boddason was much debated in the 19th century, especially by the scholars Eugen Mogk and Sophus Bugge. The debate remains undecided. In the poem Eiríksmál Odin, in Valhalla, hears the coming of the dead Norwegian king Eric Bloodaxe and his host, and bids the heroes Sigmund and Sinfjötli rise to greet him. Bragi is then mentioned, questioning how Odin knows that it is Eric and why Odin has let such a king die. In the poem Hákonarmál, Hákon the Good is taken to Valhalla by the valkyrie Göndul and Odin sends Hermóðr and Bragi to greet him. In these poems Bragi could be either a god or a dead hero in Valhalla. Attempting to decide is further confused because Hermóðr also seems to be sometimes the name of a god and sometimes the name of a hero. That Bragi was also the first to speak to Loki in the Lokasenna as Loki attempted to enter the hall might be a parallel. It might have been useful and customary that a man of great eloquence and versed in poetry should greet those entering a hall. He is also depicted in tenth-century court poetry of helping to prepare Valhalla for new arrivals and welcoming the kings who have been slain in battle to the hall of Odin. Skalds named Bragi Bragi Boddason In the Prose Edda Snorri Sturluson quotes many stanzas attributed to Bragi Boddason the old (Bragi Boddason inn gamli), a Norwegian court poet who served several Swedish kings, Ragnar Lodbrok, Östen Beli and Björn at Hauge who reigned in the first half of the 9th century. This Bragi was reckoned as the first skaldic poet, and was certainly the earliest skaldic poet then remembered by name whose verse survived in memory. Snorri especially quotes passages from Bragi's Ragnarsdrápa, a poem supposedly composed in honor of the famous legendary Viking Ragnar Lodbrok ('Hairy-breeches') describing the images on a decorated shield which Ragnar had given to Bragi. The images included Thor's fishing for Jörmungandr, Gefjun's ploughing of Zealand from the soil of Sweden, the attack of Hamdir and Sorli against King Jörmunrekk, and the never-ending battle between Hedin and Högni. Bragi son of Hálfdan the Old Bragi son of Hálfdan the Old is mentioned only in the Skjáldskaparmál. This Bragi is the sixth of the second of two groups of nine sons fathered by King Hálfdan the Old on Alvig the Wise, daughter of King Eymund of Hólmgard. This second group of sons are all eponymous ancestors of legendary families of the north. Snorri says: Bragi, from whom the Bragnings are sprung (that is the race of Hálfdan the Generous). Of the Bragnings as a race and of Hálfdan the Generous nothing else is known. However, Bragning is often, like some others of these dynastic names, used in poetry as a general word for 'king' or 'ruler'. Bragi Högnason In the eddic poem Helgakviða Hundingsbana II, Bragi Högnason, his brother Dag, and his sister Sigrún were children of Högne, the king of East Götaland. The poem relates how Sigmund's son Helgi Hundingsbane agreed to take Sigrún daughter of Högni as his wife against her unwilling betrothal to Hodbrodd son of Granmar the king of Södermanland. In the subsequent battle of Frekastein (probably one of the 300 hill forts of Södermanland, as stein meant "hill fort") against Högni and Granmar, all the chieftains on Granmar's side are slain, including Bragi, except for Bragi's brother Dag. In popular culture In the 2002 Ensemble Studios game Age of Mythology, Bragi is one of nine minor gods Norse players can worship. References Bibliography Further reading DuBois, Thomas A. Nordic Religions in the Viking Age. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1999. . Dumézil, Georges. Gods of the Ancient Northmen. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1973. . Munch, P. A. Norse Mythology: Legends of Gods and Heroes. London: H. Milford, Oxford University Press, 1926. External links Æsir Knowledge gods Norse gods Arts gods
A barrel is a cylindrical container, traditionally made with wooden material. Barrel may also refer to: BARREL (Balloon Array for RBSP Relativistic Electron Losses), a NASA mission Barrel (album), a 1970 album by Lee Michaels Barrel (horology), a watch component Barrel (unit), several units of volume Barrel (wine), for fermenting or ageing wine Barrel (fastener), a simple hinge consisting of a barrel and a pivot Gun barrel the venturi of a carburetor a component of a clarinet a component of a snorkel a tank in Harry Turtledove's books; see Victoria: An Empire Under the Sun the outside of a low voltage DC connector "The Barrel", a song by Aldous Harding from her 2019 album Designer See also Barrel roll (disambiguation) Barrell, a surname Barrow (disambiguation) Beryl (disambiguation) Keg sl:Sod
Blade Runner 3: Replicant Night is a science fiction novel by an American writer K. W. Jeter, first published in 1996. It is a continuation of Jeter's novel Blade Runner 2: The Edge of Human, which was itself a sequel to both the film Blade Runner and the novel upon which the film was based, Philip K. Dick's Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? Plot introduction Living on Mars, Deckard is acting as a consultant to a movie crew filming the story of his days as a blade runner. He finds himself drawn into a mission on behalf of the replicants he was once assigned to kill. Meanwhile, the mystery surrounding the beginnings of the Tyrell Corporation is being exposed. Characters Rick Deckard, a former bounty hunter, now working as a film consultant Sarah Tyrell, the niece of Eldon Tyrell; she has been living on Mars since the events of Blade Runner 2 Anson Tyrell, Sarah's father Ruth Tyrell, Sarah's mother Rachael, a ten-year-old girl Roy Batty, the human template for the replicant Deckard fought in the previous novel. That replicant's personality now resides inside Deckard's briefcase. Sebastien, a dehydrated deity Urbenton, director of the movie Blade Runner on which Rick Deckard is a consultant Dave Holden, Deckard's former police partner. Film adaptation The plot element of a replicant giving birth served as the basis for the 2017 film Blade Runner 2049. See also Blade Runner: Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? – original story by P K Dick Blade Runner 1: A Story of the Future – film novelization by Les Martin Blade Runner 2: The Edge of Human – K. W. Jeter Blade Runner 4: Eye and Talon – K. W. Jeter References 1996 novels Blade Runner (franchise) 1996 science fiction novels Novels by K. W. Jeter Novels set on Mars Novels about androids Novels based on films Bantam Spectra books
Blade Runner 2: The Edge of Human (1995) is a science fiction novel by American writer K. W. Jeter. It is a continuation of both the film Blade Runner and the novel upon which the film was based, Philip K. Dick's Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? Plot Several months after the events depicted in Blade Runner, Deckard has retired to an isolated shack outside the city, taking the replicant Rachael with him in a Tyrell transport container, which slows down the replicant aging process. He is approached by a woman who explains she is Sarah Tyrell, niece of Eldon Tyrell, heiress to the Tyrell Corporation and the human template ("templant") for the Rachael replicant. She asks Deckard to hunt down the "missing" sixth replicant. At the same time, the templant for Roy Batty hires Dave Holden, the blade runner attacked by Leon, to help him hunt down the man he believes is the sixth replicant—Deckard. Deckard and Holden's investigations lead them to re-visit Sebastian, Bryant, and John Isidore (from the book Do Androids Dream Of Electric Sheep?), learning more about the nature of the blade runners and the replicants. When Deckard, Batty, and Holden finally clash, Batty's super-human fighting prowess leads Holden to believe he has been duped all along and that Batty is the sixth replicant. He shoots him. Deckard returns to Sarah with his suspicion: there is no sixth replicant. Sarah, speaking via a remote camera, confesses that she invented and maintained the rumor herself in order to deliberately discredit and eventually destroy the Tyrell Corporation because her uncle Eldon had based Rachel on her and then abandoned the real Sarah. Sarah brings Rachael back to the Corporation to meet with Deckard, and they escape. However, Holden, recovering from his injuries during the fight, later uncovers the truth: Rachael has been killed by Tyrell agents, and the "Rachael" who escaped with Deckard was actually Sarah. She has completed her revenge by both destroying Tyrell and taking back Rachael's place. Characters Rick Deckard: The Tyrell Corporation finally locates him, residing at a cabin in the woods with the frozen Rachael. In exchange for getting Rachael back, Deckard agrees to hunt the missing sixth replicant. Roy Batty: The man which Tyrell used as the template for his combat replicants is in fact a man of considerable instability, suffering from a brain disorder that prevents him from experiencing fear. Sarah Tyrell: The niece of Eldon Tyrell, Sarah locates and hires Deckard to eliminate the final replicant in order to retain her corporation's hold over the market. Dave Holden: Starting off bed-ridden after his attack by the replicant Leon, Holden is rescued by Roy who in turn leads him to some startling revelations. J.R. Isidore: A lowly employee of a vet's office, Isidore also works as an underground replicant sympathizer, having made modifications to replicants in order to help them escape detection. Relationship to other works The book's plot draws from other material related to Blade Runner in a number of ways: Deckard, Pris, Sebastian, Leon, Batty, and Holden all appeared in Blade Runner. Many of the parts of the "conspiracy" are based on errors or plot holes identified by fans of the original movie, such as Leon's ability to bring a gun into the Tyrell building, or the reference to the sixth replicant. The character of John Isidore, and his "pet hospital", is taken from Dick's original novel Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?, although that book contained no suggestion that the shop ran a sideline in modifying replicants. Blade Runner's Sebastian was based on Electric Sheep's Isidore, though Jeter features them as separate characters in The Edge of Human. The idea of replicant models being mass-produced, and in particular a woman identical to Rachael existing, is also from Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?; although in that book, Pris was the replicant double of Rachael, and there was no suggestion that replicants were constructed based on human templates. The etymology of the term "blade runner" is revealed to come from the German phrase bleib ruhig, meaning "remain calm." It was supposedly developed by the Tyrell Corporation to prevent news about replicants malfunctioning. However, it also contradicts material in some ways: Sebastian was stated as being dead in the movie, yet he is alive in The Edge of Human. Pris was clearly stated as being a replicant in both the movie and the original novel, yet The Edge of Human claims she was human. Pris was clearly destroyed by Deckard in both the movie and the original novel. Sebastian's ability to bring Pris back to life as a replicant introduces numerous problems: the book implies that Sebastian was able to do this without realising that her original body was human. It is likewise unclear why Deckard would have left her, or any suspected replicant he retired, in a state from which they could be repaired. "The Final Cut" of Blade Runner removed the reference of a surviving sixth replicant, as it was normally considered a leftover from an early script. Reception Michael Giltz of Entertainment Weekly gave the book a "C−", feeling that "only hardcore fans will be satisfied by this tale" and saying Jeter's "habit of echoing dialogue and scenes from the film is annoying and begs comparisons he would do well to avoid." Tal Cohen of Tal Cohen's Bookshelf called The Edge of Human "a good book", praising Jeter's "further, and deeper, investigation of the questions Philip K. Dick originally asked", but criticized the book for its "needless grandioseness" and for "rel[ying] on Blade Runner too heavily, [as] the number of new characters introduced is extremely small..." Ian Kaplan of BearCave.com gave the book three stars out of five, saying that while he was "not entirely satisfied" and felt that the "story tends to be shallow", "Jeter does deal with the moral dilemma of the Blade Runners who hunt down beings that are virtually human in every way." J. Patton of The Bent Cover praised Jeter for "[not] try[ing] to emulate Philip K. Dick", adding, "This book also has all the grittiness and dark edges that the movie showed off so well, along with a very fast pace that will keep you reading into the wee hours of the night." Failed film adaptation In the late 1990s, Edge of Human had been adapted into a screenplay by Stuart Hazeldine, Blade Runner Down, that was to be filmed as the sequel to the 1982 film Blade Runner. Ultimately neither this script nor the Jeter novel were used for the eventual sequel, Blade Runner 2049, which follows a different story. See also Blade Runner: Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? – original story by P K Dick Blade Runner: A Story of the Future – film novelization by Les Martin Blade Runner 3: Replicant Night – K. W. Jeter Blade Runner 4: Eye and Talon – K. W. Jeter References 1995 American novels Blade Runner (franchise) Novels by K. W. Jeter 1995 science fiction novels Novels based on films
Bartolomeo Ammannati (18 June 151113 April 1592) was an Italian architect and sculptor, born at Settignano, near Florence, Italy. He studied under Baccio Bandinelli and Jacopo Sansovino (assisting on the design of the Library of St. Mark's, the , Venice) and closely imitated the style of Michelangelo. He was more distinguished in architecture than in sculpture. He worked in Rome in collaboration with Vignola and Vasari), including designs for the Villa Giulia, but also for works at Lucca. He labored during 1558–1570, in the refurbishment and enlargement of Pitti Palace, creating the courtyard consisting of three wings with rusticated facades, and one lower portico leading to the amphitheatre in the Boboli Gardens. His design mirrored the appearance of the main external façade of Pitti. He was also named Consul of Accademia delle Arti del Disegno of Florence, which had been founded by the Duke Cosimo I in 1563. In 1569, Ammanati was commissioned to build the Ponte Santa Trinita, a bridge over the Arno River. The three arches are elliptic, and though very light and elegant, has survived, when floods had damaged other Arno bridges at different times. Santa Trinita was destroyed in 1944, during World War II, and rebuilt in 1957. Ammannati designed what is considered a prototypic mannerist sculptural ensemble in the Fountain of Neptune (Fontana del Nettuno), prominently located in the Piazza della Signoria in the center of Florence. The assignment was originally given to the aged Bartolommeo Bandinelli; however when Bandinelli died, Ammannati's design, bested the submissions of Benvenuto Cellini and Vincenzo Danti, to gain the commission. From 1563 and 1565, Ammannati and his assistants, among them Giambologna, sculpted the block of marble that had been chosen by Bandinelli. He took Grand Duke Cosimo I as model for Neptune's face. The statue was meant to highlight Cosimo's goal of establishing a Florentine Naval force. The ungainly sea god was placed at the corner of the Palazzo Vecchio within sight of Michelangelo's David statue, and the then 87-year-old sculptor is said to have scoffed at Ammannati— saying that he had ruined a beautiful piece of marble— with the ditty: "Ammannati, Ammanato, che bel marmo hai rovinato!" Ammannati continued work on this fountain for a decade, adding around the perimeter a cornucopia of demigod figures: bronze reclining river gods, laughing satyrs and marble sea horses emerging from the water. In 1550 Ammannati married Laura Battiferri, an elegant poet and an accomplished woman. Later in his life he had a religious crisis, influenced by Counter-Reformation piety, which resulted in condemning his own works depicting nudity, and he left all his possessions to the Jesuits. He died in Florence in 1592. Works Victory (1540), marble, Museo Nazionale del Bargello, Florence. Leda with the Swan, marble, also in Bargello, Florence. Venus (1558–59), marble, Prado Museum, Madrid. Parnassus (1563), marble, Museo Nazionale del Bargello, Florence. Allegory of Winter (1563–65), stone, Villa Medici, Castello. Goddess Opi (1572–75), bronze, Palazzo Vecchio, Florence. Gallery References Citations General references Bartolomeo Ammannati in the "History of Art" External links 1511 births 1592 deaths People from the Province of Florence 16th-century Italian architects 16th-century Italian sculptors Italian male sculptors Italian Mannerist sculptors Italian Mannerist architects
Bertrand Andrieu (24 November 1761 – 6 December 1822) was a French engraver of medals. He was born in Bordeaux. In France, he was considered as the restorer of the art, which had declined after the time of Louis XIV. During the last twenty years of his life, the French government commissioned him to undertake every major work of importance. References Sources . External links 1761 births 1822 deaths Artists from Bordeaux 18th-century French engravers 19th-century French engravers 19th-century French male artists French medallists 18th-century French male artists
internationally known as Bust-A-Move, is a 1994 tile-matching puzzle arcade game developed and published by Taito. It is based on the 1986 arcade game Bubble Bobble, featuring characters and themes from that game. Its characteristically cute Japanese animation and music, along with its play mechanics and level designs, made it successful as an arcade title and spawned several sequels and ports to home gaming systems. Gameplay At the start of each round, the rectangular playing arena contains a prearranged pattern of colored "bubbles". At the bottom of the screen, the player controls a device called a "pointer", which aims and fires bubbles up the screen. The color of bubbles fired is randomly generated and chosen from the colors of bubbles still left on the screen. The objective of the game is to clear all the bubbles from the arena without any bubble crossing the bottom line. Bubbles will fire automatically if the player remains idle. After clearing the arena, the next round begins with a new pattern of bubbles to clear. The game consists of 32 levels. The fired bubbles travel in straight lines (possibly bouncing off the sidewalls of the arena), stopping when they touch other bubbles or reach the top of the arena. If a bubble touches identically-colored bubbles, forming a group of three or more, those bubbles—as well as any bubbles hanging from them—are removed from the field of play, and points are awarded. After every few shots, the "ceiling" of the playing arena drops downwards slightly, along with all the bubbles stuck to it. The number of shots between each drop of the ceiling is influenced by the number of bubble colors remaining. The closer the bubbles get to the bottom of the screen, the faster the music plays and if they cross the line at the bottom then the game is over. Release Two different versions of the original game were released. Puzzle Bobble was originally released in Japan only in June 1994 by Taito, running on Taito B System hardware (with the preliminary title "Bubble Buster"). Then, 6 months later in December, the international Neo Geo version of Puzzle Bobble was released. It was almost identical aside from being in stereo and having some different sound effects and translated text. Reception In Japan, Game Machine listed the Neo Geo version of Puzzle Bobble on their February 15, 1995 issue as being the second most-popular arcade game at the time. It went on to become Japan's second highest-grossing arcade printed circuit board (PCB) software of 1995, below Virtua Fighter 2. In North America, RePlay reported the Neo Geo version of Puzzle Bobble to be the fourth most-popular arcade game in February 1995. Reviewing the Super NES version, Mike Weigand of Electronic Gaming Monthly called it "a thoroughly enjoyable and incredibly addicting puzzle game". He considered the two player mode the highlight, but also said that the one player mode provides a solid challenge. GamePro gave it a generally negative review, saying it "starts out fun but ultimately lacks intricacy and longevity." They elaborated that in one player mode all the levels feel the same, and that two player matches are over too quickly to build up any excitement. They also criticized the lack of any 3D effects in the graphics. Next Generation reviewed the SNES version of the game, and stated that "It's very simple, using only the control pad and one button to fire, and it's addictive as hell." A reviewer for Next Generation, while questioning the continued viability of the action puzzle genre, admitted that the game is "very simple and very addictive". He remarked that though the 3DO version makes no significant additions, none are called for by a game with such simple enjoyment. GamePros brief review of the 3DO version commented, "The move-and-shoot controls are very responsive and the simple visuals and music are well done. This is one puzzler that isn't a bust." Edge magazine ranked the game 73rd on their 100 Best Video Games in 2007. IGN rated the SNES version 54th in its Top 100 SNES Games. Legacy The simplicity of the concept has led to many clones, both commercial and otherwise. 1996's Snood replaced the bubbles with small creatures and has been successful in its own right. Worms Blast was Team 17's take on the concept. On September 24, 2000, British game publisher Empire Interactive released a similar game, Spin Jam, for the original PlayStation console. Mobile clones include Bubble Witch Saga and Bubble Shooter. Frozen Bubble is a free software clone. For Bubble Bobble's 35th anniversary, Taito launched Puzzle Bobble VR: Vacation Odyssey on the Oculus Quest and Oculus Quest 2, later coming to PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 5 as Puzzle Bobble 3D: Vacation Odyssey in 2021. Puzzle Bobble Everybubble! On August 25, 2022, a new game titled Puzzle Bobble Everybubble! was announced for Nintendo Switch. It was released on May 23, 2023. The game also comes with an extra mode called "Puzzle Bobble vs. Space Invaders", where up to four players can work together to erase bubble-encased invaders before they reach the player while only being able to aim straight up. Notes References External links Taito Corporation page: arcade, PB (mobile) 1994 video games 3DO Interactive Multiplayer games ACA Neo Geo games Arcade video games Square Enix franchises Bubble Bobble Head-to-head arcade video games IOS games Kinesoft games Microcabin games Mobile games Multiplayer and single-player video games Neo Geo games Neo Geo CD games PlayStation 4 games Puzzle video games Game Gear games SNK games Split-screen multiplayer games Super Nintendo Entertainment System games Taito arcade games Taito B System games Video games scored by Tamayo Kawamoto Windows games WonderSwan games Xbox 360 Live Arcade games Xbox One games Video games developed in Japan Hamster Corporation games
Leg theory is a bowling tactic in the sport of cricket. The term leg theory is somewhat archaic, but the basic tactic remains a play in modern cricket. Simply put, leg theory involves concentrating the bowling attack at or near the line of leg stump. This may or may not be accompanied by a concentration of fielders on the leg side. The line of attack aims to cramp the batsman, making him play the ball with the bat close to the body. This makes it difficult to hit the ball freely and score runs, especially on the off side. Since a leg theory attack means the batsman is more likely to hit the ball on the leg side, additional fielders on that side of the field can be effective in preventing runs and taking catches. Stifling the batsman in this manner can lead to impatience and frustration, resulting in rash play by the batsman which in turn can lead to a quick dismissal. Concentrating attack on the leg stump is considered by many cricket fans and commentators to lead to boring play, as it stifles run scoring and encourages batsmen to play conservatively. Leg theory can be a moderately successful tactic when used with both fast bowling and spin bowling, particularly leg spin to right-handed batsmen or off spin to left-handed batsmen. However, because it relies on lack of concentration or discipline by the batsman, it can be risky against patient and skilled players, especially batsmen who are strong on the leg side. The English opening bowlers Sydney Barnes and Frank Foster used leg theory with some success in Australia in 1911–12. In England, at around the same time Fred Root was one of the main proponents of the same tactic. Fast leg theory In 1930, England captain Douglas Jardine, together with Nottinghamshire's captain Arthur Carr and his bowlers Harold Larwood and Bill Voce, developed a variant of leg theory in which the bowlers bowled fast, short-pitched balls that would rise into the batsman's body, together with a heavily stacked ring of close fielders on the leg side. The idea was that when the batsman defended against the ball, he would be likely to deflect the ball into the air for a catch. Jardine called this modified form of the tactic fast leg theory. On the 1932–33 English tour of Australia, Larwood and Voce bowled fast leg theory at the Australian batsmen. It turned out to be extremely dangerous, and most Australian players sustained injuries from being hit by the ball. Wicket-keeper Bert Oldfield's skull was fractured by a ball hitting his head (although the ball had first glanced off the bat and Larwood had an orthodox field), almost precipitating a riot by the Australian crowd. The Australian press dubbed the tactic Bodyline, and claimed it was a deliberate attempt by the English team to intimidate and injure the Australian players. Reports of the controversy reaching England at the time described the bowling as fast leg theory, which sounded to many people to be a harmless and well-established tactic. This led to a serious misunderstanding amongst the English public and the Marylebone Cricket Club – the administrators of English cricket – of the dangers posed by Bodyline. The English press and cricket authorities declared the Australian protests to be a case of sore losing and "squealing". It was only with the return of the English team and the subsequent use of Bodyline against English players in England by the touring West Indian cricket team in 1933 that demonstrated to the country the dangers it posed. The MCC subsequently revised the Laws of Cricket to prevent the use of "fast leg theory" tactics in future, also limiting the traditional tactic. See also Off theory References Cricket captaincy and tactics Bowling (cricket)
Blythe Katherine Danner (born February 3, 1943) is an American actress. Accolades she has received include two Primetime Emmy Awards for Best Supporting Actress in a Drama Series for her role as Izzy Huffstodt on Huff (2004–2006), and a Tony Award for Best Actress for her performance in Butterflies Are Free on Broadway (1969–1972). Danner was twice nominated for the Primetime Emmy for Outstanding Guest Actress in a Comedy Series for portraying Marilyn Truman on Will & Grace (2001–06; 2018–20), and the Primetime Emmy for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Miniseries or Movie for her roles in We Were the Mulvaneys (2002) and Back When We Were Grownups (2004). For the latter, she also received a Golden Globe Award nomination. Danner played Dina Byrnes in Meet the Parents (2000) and its sequels Meet the Fockers (2004) and Little Fockers (2010). She has collaborated on several occasions with Woody Allen, appearing in three of his films: Another Woman (1988), Alice (1990), and Husbands and Wives (1992). Her other notable film credits include 1776 (1972), Hearts of the West (1975), The Great Santini (1979), Mr. and Mrs. Bridge (1990), The Prince of Tides (1991), To Wong Foo, Thanks for Everything! Julie Newmar (1995), The Myth of Fingerprints (1997), The X-Files (1998), Forces of Nature (1999), The Love Letter (1999), The Last Kiss (2006), Paul (2011), Hello I Must Be Going (2012), I'll See You in My Dreams (2015), and What They Had (2018). Danner is the sister of Harry Danner and the widow of Bruce Paltrow. She is the mother of actress Gwyneth Paltrow and director Jake Paltrow. Early life Danner was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, the daughter of Katharine (née Kile) and Harry Earl Danner, a bank executive. She has a brother, opera singer and actor Harry Danner; a sister, performer-turned-director Dorothy "Dottie" Danner; and a maternal half-brother, violin maker William Moennig III. Danner has Pennsylvania Dutch (German), and some English and Irish ancestry; her maternal grandmother was a German immigrant, and one of her paternal great-grandmothers was born in Barbados (to a family of European descent). Danner graduated from George School, a Quaker high school located near Newtown, Bucks County, Pennsylvania, in 1960. Career A graduate of Bard College, Danner's first roles included the 1967 musical Mata Hari and the 1968 Off-Broadway production of Summertree. Her early Broadway appearances included Cyrano de Bergerac (1968) and her Theatre World Award-winning performance in The Miser (1969). She won the Tony Award for Best Featured Actress in a Play for portraying a free-spirited divorcée in Butterflies Are Free (1970). In 1972, Danner portrayed Martha Jefferson in the film version of 1776. That same year, she played the unknowing wife of a husband who committed murder, opposite Peter Falk and John Cassavetes, in the Columbo episode "Etude in Black". Her earliest starring film role was opposite Alan Alda in To Kill a Clown (1972). Danner appeared in the episode of M*A*S*H entitled "The More I See You", playing the love interest of Alda's character Hawkeye Pierce. She played lawyer Amanda Bonner in television's Adam's Rib, opposite Ken Howard as Adam Bonner. She played Zelda Fitzgerald in F. Scott Fitzgerald and 'The Last of the Belles' (1974). She was the eponymous heroine in the film Lovin' Molly (1974) (directed by Sidney Lumet). She appeared in Futureworld, playing Tracy Ballard with co-star Peter Fonda (1976). In the 1982 TV movie Inside the Third Reich, she played the wife of Albert Speer. In the film version of Neil Simon's semi-autobiographical play Brighton Beach Memoirs (1986), she portrayed a middle-aged Jewish mother. She has appeared in two films based on the novels of Pat Conroy, The Great Santini (1979) and The Prince of Tides (1991), as well as two television movies adapted from books by Anne Tyler, Saint Maybe and Back When We Were Grownups, both for the Hallmark Hall of Fame. Danner appeared opposite Robert De Niro in the 2000 comedy hit Meet the Parents, and its sequels, Meet the Fockers (2004) and Little Fockers (2010). From 2001 to 2006, she regularly appeared on NBC's sitcom Will & Grace as Will Truman's mother Marilyn. From 2004 to 2006, she starred in the main cast of the comedy-drama series Huff. In 2005, she was nominated for three Primetime Emmy Awards for her work on Will & Grace, Huff, and the television film Back When We Were Grownups, winning for her role in Huff. The following year, she won a second consecutive Emmy Award for Huff. For 25 years, she has been a regular performer at the Williamstown Summer Theater Festival, where she also serves on the board of directors. In 2006, Danner was awarded an inaugural Katharine Hepburn Medal by Bryn Mawr College's Katharine Houghton Hepburn Center. In 2015, Danner was inducted into the American Theater Hall of Fame. Environmental activism Danner has been involved in environmental issues such as recycling and conservation for over 30 years. She has been active with INFORM, Inc., is on the Board of Environmental Advocates of New York and the board of directors of the Environmental Media Association, and won the 2002 EMA Board of Directors Ongoing Commitment Award. In 2011, Danner joined Moms Clean Air Force, to help call on parents to join in the fight against toxic air pollution. Health care activism After the death of her husband Bruce Paltrow from oral cancer, she became involved with the nonprofit Oral Cancer Foundation. In 2005, she filmed a public service announcement to raise public awareness of the disease and the need for early detection. She has since appeared on morning talk shows and given interviews in such magazines as People. The Bruce Paltrow Oral Cancer Fund, administered by the Oral Cancer Foundation, raises funding for oral cancer research and treatment, with a particular focus on those communities in which healthcare disparities exist. She has also appeared in commercials for Prolia, a brand of denosumab used in the treatment of osteoporosis. Personal life Danner was married to producer and director Bruce Paltrow, who died of oral cancer in 2002. She and Paltrow had two children together, actress Gwyneth Paltrow and director Jake Paltrow. Danner's niece is the actress Katherine Moennig, the daughter of her maternal half-brother William. Danner co-starred with her daughter in the 1992 television film Cruel Doubt and again in the 2003 film Sylvia, in which she portrayed Aurelia Plath, mother to Gwyneth's title role of Sylvia Plath. Danner is a practitioner of transcendental meditation, which she has described as "very helpful and comforting". Acting credits Film Television Stage Awards and nominations References External links Stage biography from Playbill website 2003 article from the Environmental Media Association Blythe Danner interview: Leading Ladies Working in the Theatre video from American Theatre Wing, December 2006 Working in the Theatre: Performance video seminar at American Theatre Wing, April 1998 Working in the Theatre: Performance video seminar at American Theatre Wing, April 1988 1943 births Living people 20th-century American actresses 21st-century American actresses American environmentalists Actresses from Philadelphia American film actresses American people of Barbadian descent American people of Pennsylvania Dutch descent American stage actresses American television actresses American voice actresses Bard College alumni Outstanding Performance by a Supporting Actress in a Drama Series Primetime Emmy Award winners Tony Award winners George School alumni Paltrow family
Bock (or bok () is a strong beer in Germany, usually a dark lager. Several substyles exist, including: Doppelbock (Double Bock), a stronger and maltier version Eisbock (Ice Bock), a much stronger version made by partially freezing the beer and removing the ice that forms Maibock (May Bock), a paler, more hopped version generally made for consumption at spring festivals. Due to its lighter colour, it is also referred to as Heller Bock; from German hell (bright, light in colour). Weizenbock (Wheat Bock), a wheat beer made from 40 to 60% wheat History The style now known as Bock was first brewed in the 14th century in the Hanseatic town of Einbeck in Lower Saxony. The style was later adopted in Bavaria by Munich brewers in the 17th century. Due to their Bavarian accent, citizens of Munich pronounced "Einbeck" as "ein Bock" ("a billy goat"), and thus the beer became known as "Bock". A goat often appears on bottle labels. Bock is historically associated with special occasions, often religious festivals such as Christmas, Easter, or Lent (). Bock has a long history of being brewed and consumed by Bavarian monks as a source of nutrition during times of fasting. Styles Traditional Traditional Bock is a sweet, relatively strong (6.3–7.6% by volume), lightly hopped lager registering between 20 and 30 International Bitterness Units (IBUs). The beer should be clear, with color ranging from light copper to brown, and a bountiful, persistent off-white head. The aroma should be malty and toasty, possibly with hints of alcohol, but no detectable hops or fruitiness. The mouthfeel is smooth, with low to moderate carbonation and no astringency. The taste is rich and toasty, sometimes with a bit of caramel. The low-to-undetectable presence of hops provides just enough bitterness so that the sweetness is not cloying and the aftertaste is muted. The following (mostly US-based) commercial products are indicative of the style: Christmas Bock (Gunpowder Falls Brewing Company), Point Bock (Stevens Point Brewery) Einbecker Ur-Bock Dunkel, Pennsylvania Brewing St. Nick Bock, Aass Bock, Great Lakes Rockefeller Bock, Stegmaier Brewhouse Bock, and Nashville Brewing Company's Nashville Bock. Maibock The Maibock style – also known as Heller Bock or Lente Bock in the Netherlandsis a strong pale lager, lighter in colour and with more hop presence. Colour can range from deep gold to light amber with a large, creamy, persistent white head, and moderate to moderately high carbonation, while alcohol content ranges from 6.3% to 8.1% by volume. The flavour is typically less malty than a traditional Bock, and may be drier, hoppier, and more bitter, but still with a relatively low hop flavour, with a mild spicy or peppery quality from the hops, increased carbonation and alcohol content. Doppelbock Doppelbock or Double Bock is a stronger version of traditional Bock that was first brewed in Munich by the Paulaner Friars, a Franciscan order founded by St. Francis of Paula. Historically, Doppelbock was high in alcohol and sweetness. The story is told that it served as "liquid bread" for the Friars during times of fasting when solid food was not permitted. However, historian Mark Dredge, in his book A Brief History of Lager, says that this story is myth and that the monks produced Doppelbock to supplement their order's vegetarian diet all year. Today, Doppelbock is still strongranging from 7% to 12% or more by volume. It is clear, with colour ranging from dark gold, for the paler version, to dark brown with ruby highlights for a darker version. It has a large, creamy, persistent head (although head retention may be impaired by alcohol in the stronger versions). The aroma is intensely malty, with some toasty notes, and possibly some alcohol presence as well; darker versions may have a chocolate-like or fruity aroma. The flavour is very rich and malty, with noticeable alcoholic strength, and little or no detectable hops (16–26 IBUs). Paler versions may have a drier finish. The monks who originally brewed Doppelbock named their beer "Salvator" (literally "Savior", but actually a malapropism for "Sankt Vater", "St. Father", originally brewed for the feast of St. Francis of Paola on 2 April which often falls in Lent), which today is trademarked by Paulaner. Brewers of modern Doppelbock often add "-ator" to their beer's name as a signpost of the style; there are 200 "-ator" Doppelbock names registered with the German patent office. The following are representative examples of the style: Paulaner Salvator, Ayinger Celebrator, Weihenstephaner Korbinian, Andechser Doppelbock Dunkel, Spaten Optimator, Augustiner Brau Maximator, Tucher Bajuvator, Weltenburger Kloster Asam-Bock, Capital Autumnal Fire, EKU 28, Eggenberg Urbock 23º, Bell's Consecrator, Moretti La Rossa, Samuel Adams Double Bock, Tröegs Tröegenator Double Bock, Wasatch Brewery Devastator, Great Lakes Doppelrock, Abita Andygator, Wolverine State Brewing Company Predator, Burly Brewing's Burlynator, Monteith's Doppel Bock, and Christian Moerlein Emancipator Doppelbock. Eisbock Eisbock is a traditional specialty beer of the Kulmbach district of Bavaria, made by partially freezing a Doppelbock and removing the water ice to concentrate the flavour and alcohol content, which ranges from 8.6% to 14.3% by volume. It is clear, with a colour ranging from deep copper to dark brown in colour, often with ruby highlights. Although it can pour with a thin off-white head, head retention is frequently impaired by the higher alcohol content. The aroma is intense, with no hop presence, but frequently can contain fruity notes, especially of prunes, raisins, and plums. Mouthfeel is full and smooth, with significant alcohol, although this should not be hot or sharp. The flavour is rich and sweet, often with toasty notes, and sometimes hints of chocolate, always balanced by a significant alcohol presence. The following are representative examples of the style: Colorado Team Brew "Warning Sign", Kulmbacher Reichelbräu Eisbock, Eggenberg, Schneider Aventinus Eisbock, Urbock Dunkel Eisbock, Franconia Brewing Company Ice Bock 17%. The strongest ice beer, Strength in Numbers, was a one-time collaboration in 2020 between Schorschbrau of Germany and BrewDog of Scotland, who had competed with each other in the early years of the 21st century to produce the world's strongest beer. Strength in Numbers was created using traditional ice distillation, reaching a final strength of 57.8% ABV. Weizenbock Weizenbock is a style that replaces some of the barley in the grain bill with 40–60% wheat. It was first produced in Bavaria in 1907 by G. Schneider & Sohn and was named Aventinus after 16th-century Bavarian historian Johannes Aventinus. The style combines darker Munich malts and top-fermenting wheat beer yeast, brewed at the strength of a Doppelbock. References External links Description of German Lenten Beer History German beer styles
Bearing(s) may refer to: Bearing (angle), a term for direction Bearing (mechanical), a component that separates moving parts and takes a load Bridge bearing, a component separating a bridge pier and deck Bearing BTS Station in Bangkok Bearings (album), by Ronnie Montrose in 2000 See also Posture (disambiguation) Bering (disambiguation) Baring (disambiguation)
The Branco River (; Engl: White River) is the principal affluent of the Rio Negro from the north. Basin The river drains the Guayanan Highlands moist forests ecoregion. It is enriched by many streams from the Tepui highlands which separate Venezuela and Guyana from Brazil. Its two upper main tributaries are the Uraricoera and the Takutu. The latter almost links its sources with those of the Essequibo; during floods headwaters of the Branco and those of the Essequibo are connected, allowing a level of exchange in the aquatic fauna (such as fish) between the two systems. The Branco flows nearly south, and finds its way into the Negro through several channels and a chain of lagoons similar to those of the latter river. It is long, up to its Uraricoera confluence. It has numerous islands, and, above its mouth, it is broken by a bad series of rapids. Discharge Average, minimum and maximum discharge of the Branco River at near mouth. Period from 1998 to 2022. Water chemistry As suggested by its name, the Branco (literally "white" in Portuguese) has whitish water that may appear almost milky due to the inorganic sediments it carries. It is traditionally considered a whitewater river, although the major seasonal fluctuations in its physico-chemical characteristics makes a classification difficult and some consider it clearwater. Especially the river's upper parts at the headwaters are clear and flow through rocky country, leading to the suggestion that sediments mainly originate from the lower parts. Furthermore, its chemistry and color may contradict each other compared to the traditional Amazonian river classifications. The Branco River has pH 6–7 and low levels of dissolved organic carbon. Alfred Russel Wallace mentioned the coloration in "On the Rio Negro", a paper read at the 13 June 1853 meeting of the Royal Geographical Society, in which he said: "[The Rio Branco] is white to a remarkable degree, its waters being actually milky in appearance". Alexander von Humboldt attributed the color to the presence of silicates in the water, principally mica and talc. There is a visible contrast with the waters of the Rio Negro at the confluence of the two rivers. The Rio Negro is a blackwater river with dark tea-colored acidic water (pH 3.5–4.5) that contains high levels of dissolved organic carbon. River capture Until approximately 20,000 years ago the headwaters of the Branco River flowed not into the Amazon, but via the Takutu Graben in the Rupununi area of Guyana towards the Caribbean. Currently in the rainy season much of the Rupununi area floods, with water draining both to the Amazon (via the Branco River) and the Essequibo River. Citations Notes References Encyclopædia Britannica Online.com: "Branco River" . retrieved 19 September 2009. Rivers of Roraima Tributaries of the Rio Negro (Amazon) Boa Vista, Roraima Guayana Highlands
William "Bill" D. Atkinson (born March 17, 1951) is an American computer engineer and photographer. Atkinson worked at Apple Computer from 1978 to 1990. Atkinson was the principal designer and developer of the graphical user interface (GUI) of the Apple Lisa and, later, one of the first thirty members of the original Apple Macintosh development team, and was the creator of the MacPaint application. He also designed and implemented QuickDraw, the fundamental toolbox that the Lisa and Macintosh used for graphics. QuickDraw's performance was essential for the success of the Macintosh GUI. He also was one of the main designers of the Lisa and Macintosh user interfaces. Atkinson also conceived, designed and implemented HyperCard, an early and influential hypermedia system. HyperCard put the power of computer programming and database design into the hands of nonprogrammers. In 1994, Atkinson received the EFF Pioneer Award for his contributions. Education He received his undergraduate degree from the University of California, San Diego, where Apple Macintosh developer Jef Raskin was one of his professors. Atkinson continued his studies as a graduate student in neurochemistry at the University of Washington. Raskin invited Atkinson to visit him at Apple Computer; Steve Jobs persuaded him to join the company immediately as employee No. 51, and Atkinson never finished his PhD. Career Around 1990, General Magic's founding, with Bill Atkinson as one of the three cofounders, met the following press in Byte magazine: The obstacles to General Magic's success may appear daunting, but General Magic is not your typical start-up company. Its partners include some of the biggest players in the worlds of computing, communications, and consumer electronics, and it's loaded with top-notch engineers who have been given a clean slate to reinvent traditional approaches to ubiquitous worldwide communications. In 2007, Atkinson began working as an outside developer with Numenta, a startup working on computer intelligence. On his work there Atkinson said, "what Numenta is doing is more fundamentally important to society than the personal computer and the rise of the Internet." Currently, Atkinson has combined his passion for computer programming with his love of nature photography to create art images. He takes close-up photographs of stones that have been cut and polished. His works are highly regarded for their resemblance to miniature landscapes which are hidden within the stones. Atkinson's 2004 book Within the Stone features a collection of his close-up photographs. The highly intricate and detailed images he creates are made possible by the accuracy and creative control of the digital printing process that he helped create. Some of Atkinson's noteworthy contributions to the field of computing include: Macintosh QuickDraw and Lisa LisaGraf Atkinson independently discovered the midpoint circle algorithm for fast drawing of circles by using the sum of consecutive odd numbers. Marching ants The double-click Menu bar The selection lasso FatBits MacPaint HyperCard Atkinson dithering Bill Atkinson PhotoCard Atkinson now works as a nature photographer. Actor Nelson Franklin portrayed him in the 2013 film Jobs. References External links 1951 births American photographers Apple Inc. employees Apple Fellows Living people University of California, San Diego alumni Place of birth missing (living people) University of Washington alumni Macintosh operating systems people Scientists from the San Francisco Bay Area
Beeb or BEEB may refer to: BBC, the British Broadcasting Corporation, sometimes called the Beeb or Auntie Beeb BEEB, a BBC children's magazine published in 1985 BBC Micro, a home computer built for the BBC by Acorn Computers Ltd., nicknamed The Beeb Beeb.com or BBC online Beeb Birtles (born 1948), Dutch-Australian musician See also Bebe (disambiguation) Beebe (disambiguation) The Bieb
Barge often refers to a flat-bottomed inland waterway vessel which does not have its own means of mechanical propulsion. The first modern barges were pulled by tugs, but on inland waterways, most are pushed by pusher boats, or other vessels. The term barge has a rich history, and therefore there are many other types of barges. History of the barge Etymology "Barge" is attested from 1300, from Old French barge, from Vulgar Latin barga. The word originally could refer to any small boat; the modern meaning arose around 1480. Bark "small ship" is attested from 1420, from Old French barque, from Vulgar Latin barca (400 AD). The more precise meaning of Barque as "three-masted sailing vessel" arose in the 17th century, and often takes the French spelling for disambiguation. Both are probably derived from the Latin barica, from Greek baris "Egyptian boat", from Coptic bari "small boat", hieroglyphic Egyptian D58-G29-M17-M17-D21-P1 and similar ba-y-r for "basket-shaped boat". By extension, the term "embark" literally means to board the kind of boat called a "barque". The British river barge In Great Britain a merchant barge was originally a flat bottomed merchant vessel for use on navigable rivers. Most of these barges had sails. For traffic on the River Severn the barge was described as: The lesser sort are called barges and frigates, being from forty to sixty feet in length, having a single mast and square sail, and carrying from twenty to forty tons burthen. The larger vessels were called trows. On the River Irwell there was reference to barges passing below Barton Aqueduct with their mast and sails standing. Barges on the Thames were called west country barges. British canals: narrowboats and widebeams During the Industrial Revolution, a substantial network of narrow canals was developed in Great Britain from 1750 onward. These new British canals had locks of only wide. This led to the development of the narrowboats, which had a beam of no more than . It was soon realized that the narrow locks were too limiting. Later locks were therefore doubled in width to . This led to the development of the widebeam. The narrowboats were initially also known as barges, but only a very few had sails, unlike earlier vessels. From the start, most of the new canals were constructed with an adjacent towpath along which draft horses walked, towing the barges. These types of canal craft are so specific that on the British canal system the term 'barge' was not used to describe narrowboats and widebeams. Narrowboats and widebeams are still used on canals, now engine-powered. The Thames barge and Dutch barge On the British canal system, the Thames sailing barge, and Dutch barge and unspecified other styles of barge, are still known as barges. The term Dutch barge is nowadays often used to refer to an accommodation ship, but originally refers to the slightly larger Dutch version of the Thames sailing barge. Crew and pole The people who moved barges were known as lightermen. Poles are used on barges to fend off other nearby vessels or a wharf. These are often called 'pike poles'. The long pole used to maneuver or propel a barge has given rise to the saying "I wouldn't touch that [subject/thing] with a barge pole." The 19th century British barge In the United Kingdom the word barge had many meanings by the 1890s, and these varied locally. On the Mersey a barge was called a 'Flat', on the Thames a Lighter or barge, and on the Humber a 'Keel'. A Lighter had neither mast nor rigging. A keel did have a single mast with sails. Barge and lighter were used indiscriminately. A local distinction was that any flat that was not propelled by steam was a barge, although it might be a sailing flat. The term Dumb barge was probably taken into use to end the confusion. The term Dumb barge surfaced in the early nineteenth century. It first denoted the use of a barge as a mooring platform in a fixed place. As it went up and down with the tides, it made a very convenient mooring place for steam vessels. Within a few decades, the term dumb barge evolved, and came to mean: 'a vessel propelled by oars only'. By the 1890s Dumb barge was still used only on the Thames. By 1880 barges on British rivers and canals were often towed by steam tugboats. On the Thames, many dumb barges still relied on their poles, oars and the tide. Others dumb barges made use of about 50 tugboats to tow them to their destinations. While many coal barges were towed, many dumb barges that handled single parcels were not. The 19th century American barge In the United States a barge was not a sailing vessel by the end of the 19th century. Indeed, barges were often created by cutting down (razeeing) sailing vessels. In New York this was an accepted meaning of the term barge. The somewhat smaller scow was built as such, but the scow also had its sailing counterpart the sailing scow. The modern barge The iron barge The innovation that led to the modern barge was the use of iron barges towed by a steam tugboat. These were first used to transport grain and other bulk products. From about 1840 to 1870 the towed iron barge was quickly introduced on the Rhine, Danube, Don, Dniester, and rivers in Egypt, India and Australia. Many of these barges were built in Great Britain. Nowadays 'barge' generally refers to a dumb barge. In Europe, a Dumb barge is: An inland waterway transport freight vessel designed to be towed which does not have its own means of mechanical propulsion. In America, a barge is generally pushed. Modern use Barges are used today for transporting low-value bulk items, as the cost of hauling goods that way is very low. Barges are also used for very heavy or bulky items; a typical American barge measures , and can carry up to about of cargo. The most common European barges measure and can carry up to about . As an example, on June 26, 2006, in the US a catalytic cracking unit reactor was shipped by barge from the Tulsa Port of Catoosa in Oklahoma to a refinery in Pascagoula, Mississippi. Extremely large objects are normally shipped in sections and assembled after delivery, but shipping an assembled unit reduces costs and avoids reliance on construction labor at the delivery site, which in the case of the reactor was still recovering from Hurricane Katrina. Of the reactor's journey, only about were traveled overland, from the final port to the refinery. Self-propelled barges may be used for traveling downstream or upstream in placid waters; they are operated as an unpowered barge, with the assistance of a tugboat, when traveling upstream in faster waters. Canal barges are usually made for the particular canal in which they will operate. Unpowered vessels—barges—may be used for other purposes, such as large accommodation vessels, towed to where they are needed and stationed there as long as necessary. An example is the Bibby Stockholm. Types ("accommodation barge") Ferrocement or or Spitz barge Severn Image gallery See also American Waterways Operators Burlak Canal boat Ross Barlow Car float Chain boat Container on barge Dory Float (nautical) Hughes Mining Barge Lighter Mobro 4000 Pusher (boat) Shallop Tub boat Type B ship References Notes External links Barge Lehigh Valley 79 at the Waterfront Museum, Brooklyn, New York, United States Britain's Official guide to canals, rivers and lakes DBA The Barge Association The American Waterways Operators Shipping
William Frederick Schelter (1947 – July 30, 2001) was a professor of mathematics at The University of Texas at Austin and a Lisp developer and programmer. Schelter is credited with the development of the GNU Common Lisp (GCL) implementation of Common Lisp and the GPL'd version of the computer algebra system Macsyma called Maxima. Schelter authored Austin Kyoto Common Lisp (AKCL) under contract with IBM. AKCL formed the foundation for Axiom, another computer algebra system. AKCL eventually became GNU Common Lisp. He is also credited with the first port of the GNU C compiler to the Intel 386 architecture, used in the original implementation of the Linux kernel. Schelter obtained his Ph.D. at McGill University in 1972. His mathematical specialties were noncommutative ring theory and computational algebra and its applications, including automated theorem proving in geometry. In the summer of 2001, age 54, he died suddenly of a heart attack while traveling in Russia. References S. Chou and W. Schelter. Proving Geometry Theorems with Rewrite Rules Journal of Automated Reasoning, 1986. External links Maxima homepage. Maxima is now available under GPL. 1947 births 2001 deaths Lisp (programming language) people 20th-century American mathematicians Computer programmers University of Texas at Austin faculty McGill University Faculty of Science alumni
Berinthia "Berry" Berenson-Perkins ( Berenson; April 14, 1948 – September 11, 2001) was an American actress, model and photographer. She was the widow of actor Anthony Perkins. She died in the September 11 attacks as a passenger on American Airlines Flight 11. Early life Berry Berenson was born in Murray Hill, Manhattan, New York City. Her mother was born Maria-Luisa Yvonne Radha de Wendt de Kerlor, better known as Gogo Schiaparelli, a socialite of Italian, Swiss, French, and Egyptian ancestry. Her father, Robert Lawrence Berenson, was an American career diplomat turned shipping executive; he was of Lithuanian-Jewish descent, and his family's original surname was "Valvrojenski". Berenson's maternal grandmother was the Italian-born fashion designer Elsa Schiaparelli, and her maternal grandfather was Wilhelm de Wendt de Kerlor, a Theosophist and psychic medium. Her elder sister, Marisa Berenson, became a well-known model and actress. She also was a great-grandniece of Giovanni Schiaparelli, an Italian astronomer who believed he had discovered the supposed canals of Mars, and a second cousin, once removed, of art expert Bernard Berenson (1865–1959) and his sister Senda Berenson (1868–1954), an athlete and educator who was one of the first two women elected to the Basketball Hall of Fame. Career Following a brief modeling career in the late 1960s, Berenson became a freelance photographer. By 1973, her photographs had been published in Life, Glamour, Vogue and Newsweek. Berenson studied acting at New York's The American Place Theatre with Wynn Handman along with Richard Gere, Philip Anglim, Penelope Milford, Robert Ozn, Ingrid Boulting and her sister Marisa. Berenson also appeared in several motion pictures. She starred opposite Anthony Perkins in the 1978 Alan Rudolph film Remember My Name, and appeared with Jeff Bridges in the 1979 film Winter Kills and Malcolm McDowell in Cat People (1982). Personal life and death On August 9, 1973, in Cape Cod, Massachusetts, Berenson, three months pregnant, married her future Remember My Name co-star Anthony Perkins. The couple raised two sons: actor-director Oz Perkins and folk/rock singer-songwriter Elvis Perkins. They remained married until Perkins died from AIDS-related complications on September 12, 1992. Berenson died on September 11, 2001, as she was returning home to Los Angeles following a holiday on Cape Cod. She and the rest of the passengers and crew aboard American Airlines Flight 11 died when it was hijacked and crashed into the World Trade Center during the September 11 attacks in Manhattan. At the National September 11 Memorial & Museum, Berenson is memorialized at the North Pool, on Panel N-76. References External links Several news stories about Berry Berenson 2001 deaths Actresses from New York City American Airlines Flight 11 victims American film actresses American people of Egyptian descent American people of French descent American people of Italian descent American people of Lithuanian-Jewish descent American people of Swiss descent American women photographers Female models from New York (state) Jewish American actresses Models from New York City People from Murray Hill, Manhattan People from Wellfleet, Massachusetts 20th-century American actresses 21st-century American actresses 1948 births
A bactericide or bacteriocide, sometimes abbreviated Bcidal, is a substance which kills bacteria. Bactericides are disinfectants, antiseptics, or antibiotics. However, material surfaces can also have bactericidal properties based solely on their physical surface structure, as for example biomaterials like insect wings. Disinfectants The most used disinfectants are those applying active chlorine (i.e., hypochlorites, chloramines, dichloroisocyanurate and trichloroisocyanurate, wet chlorine, chlorine dioxide, etc.), active oxygen (peroxides, such as peracetic acid, potassium persulfate, sodium perborate, sodium percarbonate, and urea perhydrate), iodine (povidone-iodine, Lugol's solution, iodine tincture, iodinated nonionic surfactants), concentrated alcohols (mainly ethanol, 1-propanol, called also n-propanol and 2-propanol, called isopropanol and mixtures thereof; further, 2-phenoxyethanol and 1- and 2-phenoxypropanols are used), phenolic substances (such as phenol (also called "carbolic acid"), cresols such as thymol, halogenated (chlorinated, brominated) phenols, such as hexachlorophene, triclosan, trichlorophenol, tribromophenol, pentachlorophenol, salts and isomers thereof), cationic surfactants, such as some quaternary ammonium cations (such as benzalkonium chloride, cetyl trimethylammonium bromide or chloride, didecyldimethylammonium chloride, cetylpyridinium chloride, benzethonium chloride) and others, non-quaternary compounds, such as chlorhexidine, glucoprotamine, octenidine dihydrochloride etc.), strong oxidizers, such as ozone and permanganate solutions; heavy metals and their salts, such as colloidal silver, silver nitrate, mercury chloride, phenylmercury salts, copper sulfate, copper oxide-chloride etc. Heavy metals and their salts are the most toxic and environment-hazardous bactericides and therefore their use is strongly discouraged or prohibited strong acids (phosphoric, nitric, sulfuric, amidosulfuric, toluenesulfonic acids), pH < 1, and alkalis (sodium, potassium, calcium hydroxides), such as of pH > 13, particularly under elevated temperature (above 60 °C), kills bacteria. Antiseptics As antiseptics (i.e., germicide agents that can be used on human or animal body, skin, mucoses, wounds and the like), few of the above-mentioned disinfectants can be used, under proper conditions (mainly concentration, pH, temperature and toxicity toward humans and animals). Among them, some important are properly diluted chlorine preparations (f.e. Dakin's solution, 0.5% sodium or potassium hypochlorite solution, pH-adjusted to pH 7 – 8, or 0.5 – 1% solution of sodium benzenesulfochloramide (chloramine B)), some iodine preparations, such as iodopovidone in various galenics (ointment, solutions, wound plasters), in the past also Lugol's solution, peroxides such as urea perhydrate solutions and pH-buffered 0.1 – 0.25% peracetic acid solutions, alcohols with or without antiseptic additives, used mainly for skin antisepsis, weak organic acids such as sorbic acid, benzoic acid, lactic acid and salicylic acid some phenolic compounds, such as hexachlorophene, triclosan and Dibromol, and cationic surfactants, such as 0.05 – 0.5% benzalkonium, 0.5 – 4% chlorhexidine, 0.1 – 2% octenidine solutions. Others are generally not applicable as safe antiseptics, either because of their corrosive or toxic nature. Antibiotics Bactericidal antibiotics kill bacteria; bacteriostatic antibiotics slow their growth or reproduction. Bactericidal antibiotics that inhibit cell wall synthesis: the beta-lactam antibiotics (penicillin derivatives (penams), cephalosporins (cephems), monobactams, and carbapenems) and vancomycin. Also bactericidal are daptomycin, fluoroquinolones, metronidazole, nitrofurantoin, co-trimoxazole, telithromycin. Aminoglycosidic antibiotics are usually considered bactericidal, although they may be bacteriostatic with some organisms. As of 2004, the distinction between bactericidal and bacteriostatic agents appeared to be clear according to the basic/clinical definition, but this only applies under strict laboratory conditions and it is important to distinguish microbiological and clinical definitions. The distinction is more arbitrary when agents are categorized in clinical situations. The supposed superiority of bactericidal agents over bacteriostatic agents is of little relevance when treating the vast majority of infections with gram-positive bacteria, particularly in patients with uncomplicated infections and noncompromised immune systems. Bacteriostatic agents have been effectively used for treatment that are considered to require bactericidal activity. Furthermore, some broad classes of antibacterial agents considered bacteriostatic can exhibit bactericidal activity against some bacteria on the basis of in vitro determination of MBC/MIC values. At high concentrations, bacteriostatic agents are often bactericidal against some susceptible organisms. The ultimate guide to treatment of any infection must be clinical outcome. Surfaces Material surfaces can exhibit bactericidal properties because of their crystallographic surface structure. Somewhere in the mid-2000s it was shown that metallic nanoparticles can kill bacteria. The effect of a silver nanoparticle for example depends on its size with a preferential diameter of about 1-10 nm to interact with bacteria. In 2013, cicada wings were found to have a selective anti-gram-negative bactericidal effect based on their physical surface structure. Mechanical deformation of the more or less rigid nanopillars found on the wing releases energy, striking and killing bacteria within minutes, hence called a mechano-bactericidal effect. In 2020 researchers combined cationic polymer adsorption and femtosecond laser surface structuring to generate a bactericidal effect against both gram-positive Staphylococcus aureus and gram-negative Escherichia coli bacteria on borosilicate glass surfaces, providing a practical platform for the study of the bacteria-surface interaction. See also List of antibiotics Microbicide Virucide References
Bulgarian may refer to: Something of, from, or related to the country of Bulgaria Bulgarians, a South Slavic ethnic group Bulgarian language, a Slavic language Bulgarian alphabet A citizen of Bulgaria, see Demographics of Bulgaria Bulgarian culture Bulgarian cuisine, a representative of the cuisine of Southeastern Europe See also List of Bulgarians, include Bulgarian name, names of Bulgarians Bulgarian umbrella, an umbrella with a hidden pneumatic mechanism Bulgar (disambiguation) Bulgarian-Serbian War (disambiguation) Language and nationality disambiguation pages
Bunsen may refer to: Christian Charles Josias Bunsen (1791–1860), Prussian diplomat and scholar Frances Bunsen (1791–1876), or Baroness Bunsen, Welsh painter and author, wife of Christian Charles Josias Bunsen Robert Bunsen (1811–1899), German chemist, after whom is named: Bunsen burner Bunsen cell Bunsen crater on the Moon 10361 Bunsen, an asteroid Bunsen Reaction The Bunsen–Kirchhoff Award, a German award for spectroscopy Sir Maurice de Bunsen (1852–1932), British diplomat Dr. Bunsen Honeydew, fictional character from the Muppet Show Low German surnames
Barbara Kay Olson (née Bracher; December 27, 1955September 11, 2001) was an American lawyer and conservative television commentator who worked for CNN, Fox News Channel, and several other outlets. She was a passenger on American Airlines Flight 77 en route to a taping of Bill Maher's television show Politically Incorrect when it was flown into the Pentagon in the September 11 attacks. Early life Olson was born Barbara Kay Bracher in Houston, Texas, on December 27, 1955. Her older sister, Toni Bracher-Lawrence, was a member of the Houston City Council from 2004 to 2010. She graduated from Waltrip High School. Personal life She married Theodore Olson in 1996, becoming his third wife. Olson was a frequent critic of the Bill Clinton administration and wrote a book about then First Lady Hillary Clinton, Hell to Pay: The Unfolding Story of Hillary Rodham Clinton (1999). Olson's second book, The Final Days: The Last, Desperate Abuses of Power by the Clinton White House was published posthumously. Death and legacy Olson was a passenger on American Airlines Flight 77, on her way to a taping of Politically Incorrect in Los Angeles, when it was flown into the Pentagon in the September 11 attacks. Her original plan had been to fly to California on September 10, but she waited until the next day so that she could wake up with her husband on his birthday, September 11. At the National September 11 Memorial, Olson's name is located on Panel S-70 of the South Pool, along with those of other passengers of Flight 77. Three months after the attacks, Olson's remains were identified. She was buried at her family's retreat in Wisconsin. In popular culture Canadian actress Marsha Mason portrayed Barbara Olson in the Canadian TV series Mayday Season 16: Episode 2 (2016) called "9/11: The Pentagon Attack". Books References External links Wife of Solicitor General alerted him of hijacking from plane Barbara Olson Mourned at Arlington Service Barbara Olson: A Sparkling Celebrity 'Full of Energy' Newsday.com-Victims Search Alfred S. Regnery (September 17, 2001). "Barbara Olson, RIP". Human Events/BNet Research Center. 1955 births 2001 deaths 20th-century American lawyers 20th-century American non-fiction writers 20th-century American women lawyers 20th-century American women writers 21st-century American lawyers 21st-century American non-fiction writers 21st-century American women lawyers 21st-century American women writers American Airlines Flight 77 victims American political commentators American political writers American women television personalities Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law alumni Lawyers from Washington, D.C. Lawyers from Houston People murdered in Virginia Terrorism deaths in Virginia University of St. Thomas (Texas) alumni Washington, D.C., Republicans Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr associates Television personalities from Texas Yeshiva University alumni
Bernardino Ochino (1487–1564) was an Italian, who was raised a Roman Catholic and later turned to Protestantism and became a Protestant reformer. Biography Bernardino Ochino was born in Siena, the son of the barber Domenico Ochino, and at the age of 7 or 8, in around 1504, was entrusted to the order of Franciscan Friars. From 1510 he studied medicine at Perugia. Transfer to the Capuchins At the age of 38, Ochino transferred himself in 1534 to the newly founded Order of Friars Minor Capuchin. By then he was the close friend of Juan de Valdés, Pietro Bembo, Vittoria Colonna, Pietro Martire, Carnesecchi. In 1538 he was elected vicar-general of his order. In 1539, urged by Bembo, he visited Venice and delivered a course of sermons showing a sympathy with justification by faith, which appeared more clearly in his Dialogues published the same year. He was suspected and denounced, but nothing ensued until the establishment of the Inquisition in Rome in June 1542, at the instigation of Cardinal Giovanni Pietro Carafa. Ochino received a citation to Rome, and set out to obey it about the middle of August. According to his own statement, he was deterred from presenting himself at Rome by the warnings of Cardinal Contarini, whom he found at Bologna, dying of poison administered by the reactionary party. Escape to Geneva Ochino turned aside to Florence, and after some hesitation went across the Alps to Geneva. He was cordially received by John Calvin, and published within two years several volumes of Prediche, controversial tracts rationalizing his change of religion. He also addressed replies to marchioness Vittoria Colonna, Claudio Tolomei, and other Italian sympathizers who were reluctant to go to the same length as himself. His own breach with the Roman Catholic Church was final. Augsburg and England In 1545 Ochino became minister of the Italian Protestant congregation at Augsburg. From this time dates his contact with Caspar Schwenckfeld. He was compelled to flee when, in January 1547, the city was occupied by the imperial forces for the Diet of Augsburg. Ochino found asylum in England, where he was made a prebendary of Canterbury Cathedral, received a pension from Edward VI's privy purse, and composed his major work, the Tragoedie or Dialoge of the unjuste usurped primacie of the Bishop of Rome. This text, originally written in Latin, is extant only in the 1549 translation of Bishop John Ponet. The form is a series of dialogues. Lucifer, enraged at the spread of Jesus's kingdom, convokes the fiends in council, and resolves to set up the pope as antichrist. The state, represented by the emperor Phocas, is persuaded to connive at the pope's assumption of spiritual authority; the other churches are intimidated into acquiescence; Lucifer's projects seem fully accomplished, when Heaven raises up Henry VIII of England and his son for their overthrow. Several of Ochino's Prediche were translated into English by Anna Cooke; and he published numerous controversial treatises on the Continent. Ochino's Che Cosa è Christo was translated into Latin and English by the future Queen Elizabeth I of England in 1547. Zürich In 1553 the accession of Mary I drove Ochino from England. He went to Basel, where Lelio Sozzini and the lawyer Martino Muralto were sent to secure Ochino as pastor of the Italian church at Zürich, which Ochino accepted. The Italian congregation there was composed mainly of refugees from Locarno. There for 10 years Ochino wrote books which gave increasing evidence of his alienation from the orthodoxy around him. The most important of these was the Labyrinth, a discussion of the freedom of the will, covertly undermining the Calvinistic doctrine of predestination. In 1563 a long simmering storm burst on Ochino with the publication of his Thirty Dialogues, in one of which his adversaries maintained that he had justified polygamy under the disguise of a pretended refutation. His dialogues on divorce and against the Trinity were also considered heretical. Poland, and death Ochino was not given opportunity to defend himself, and was banished from Zürich. After being refused admission by other Protestant cities, he directed his steps towards Poland, at that time the most tolerant state in Europe. He had not resided there long when an edict appeared (August 8, 1564) banishing all foreign dissidents. Fleeing the country, he encountered the plague at Pińczów; three of his four children were carried off; and he himself, worn out by misfortune, died in solitude and obscurity at Slavkov in Moravia, about the end of 1564. Legacy Ochino's reputation among Protestants was low. He was charged by Thomas Browne in 1643 with the authorship of the legendary-apocryphal heretical treatise De tribus Impostoribus, as well as with having carried his alleged approval of polygamy into practice. His biographer Karl Benrath justified him, representing him as a fervent evangelist and at the same time as a speculative thinker with a passion for free inquiry. The picture is of Ochino always learning and unlearning and arguing out difficult questions with himself in his dialogues, frequently without attaining to any absolute conviction. Works Prediche (1542) Epistola alli Signori di Balia della città di Siena (1543) Responsio ad Marcum Brixiensem Abbatem Ordinis S. Benedicti (Geneva, 1543) Responsio ad Mutium Justinopolitanum to Girolamo Muzio (1496-1576) Tragoedie or Dialoge of the unjuste usurped primacie of the Bishop of Rome. 1549 translation of Bishop John Ponet. Disputa intorno alla presenza del corpo di Cristo nel Sacramento della Cena Labyrinth - Laberinti del libero arbitrio (1563) dedicated to Elisabeth I Dialogi XXX (1563) Prediche Notes References Karl Benrath's German biography, translated into English by Helen Zimmern, with a preface by the Rev. W. Arthur, London, 1876. External links Attribution 1487 births 1564 deaths People from Siena Capuchins Italian Calvinist and Reformed theologians General Vicars and Ministers General of the Order of Friars Minor Capuchin Converts to Calvinism from Roman Catholicism
The Bay of Quinte () is a long, narrow bay shaped like the letter "Z" on the northern shore of Lake Ontario in the province of Ontario, Canada. It is just west of the head of the Saint Lawrence River that drains the Great Lakes into the Gulf of Saint Lawrence. It is located about east of Toronto and west of Montreal. The name "Quinte" is derived from "Kenté" or Kentio, an Iroquoian village located near the south shore of the Bay. Later on, an early French Catholic mission was built at Kenté, located on the north shore of what is now Prince Edward County, leading to the Bay being named after the Mission. Officially, in the Mohawk language, the community is called , which means "the place of the bay". The Cayuga name is or , "land of two logs." The Bay, as it is known locally, provides some of the best trophy walleye angling in North America as well as most sport fish common to the great lakes. The bay is subject to algal blooms in late summer. Zebra mussels as well as the other invasive species found in the Great Lakes are present. The Quinte area played a vital role in bootlegging during prohibition in the United States, with large volumes of liquor being produced in the area, and shipped via boat on the bay to Lake Ontario finally arriving in New York State where it was distributed. Illegal sales of liquor accounted for many fortunes in and around Belleville. Tourism in the area is significant, especially in the summer months due to the Bay of Quinte and its fishing, local golf courses, provincial parks, and wineries. Geography The northern side of the bay is defined by Ontario's mainland, while the southern side follows the shore of the Prince Edward County headland. Beginning in the east with the outlet to Lake Ontario, the bay runs west-southwest for to Picton (although this section is also called Adolphus Reach), where it turns north-northwest for another as far as Deseronto. From there it turns south-southwest again for another , running past Big Island on the south and Belleville on the north. The width of the bay rarely exceeds . The bay ends at Trenton (Quinte West) and the Trent River, both also on the north side. The Murray Canal has been cut through the "Carrying Place", the few kilometres separating the end of the bay and Lake Ontario on the west side. The Trent River is part of the Trent-Severn Waterway, a canal connecting Lake Ontario to Lake Simcoe and then Georgian Bay on Lake Huron. There are several sub-bays off the Bay of Quinte, including Hay Bay, Big Bay, and Muscote Bay. Bay of Quinte Region Quinte is also a region comprising several communities situated along the Bay of Quinte, including Quinte West, Brighton and the City of Belleville, which is the largest city in the Quinte Region, and represents a midpoint between Montreal, Ottawa, and Toronto. The Greater Bay of Quinte area includes the municipalities of Brighton, Quinte West, Belleville, Prince Edward County, and Greater Napanee as well as the Native Tyendinaga Mohawk Territory. Overall population of the area exceeds 200,000. Mohawks of the Bay of Quinte The Mohawks of the Bay of Quinte (Kenhtè:ke Kanyen'kehá:ka) live on traditional Tyendinaga Mohawk Territory. Their reserve Band number 244, their current land base, is on the Bay of Quinte in southeastern Ontario east of Belleville and immediately to the west of Deseronto. The community takes its name from a variant spelling of Mohawk leader Joseph Brant's traditional Mohawk name, Thayendanegea (standardized spelling Thayentiné:ken), which means 'two pieces of fire wood beside each other'. Officially, in the Mohawk language, the community is called "Kenhtè:ke" (Tyendinaga), which means "on the bay", and was the birthplace of Tekanawí:ta. The Cayuga name is Tyendinaga, Tayęda:ne:gęˀ or Detgayę:da:negęˀ, "land of two logs." Communities Belleville Quinte West Brighton Shannonville Napanee Deseronto Tyendinaga Mohawk Territory Rossmore Ameliasburgh Picton Consecon Carrying Place Education The Quinte Region, specifically the City of Belleville, is home to Loyalist College of Applied Arts and Technology. Other post-secondary schools in the region include Maxwell College of Advanced Technology, CDI College, and Quinte Literacy. Secondary schools in the region include Albert College (private school) and Sir James Whitney (a school for the deaf and severely hearing-impaired). Industry and employment The Bay of Quinte region is a hub for industry in eastern Ontario. The region is home to a diverse cluster of domestic and multi-national manufacturing and logistics companies. Sectors include; food processing, auto-parts, plastics and packaging, consumer goods, and more. The region's close proximity to North American markets, strong labour force and start-up and operating costs have attracted attention and new investment from companies all over the globe. Industry in the Bay of Quinte region is supported by a workforce of over 11,000. Investment attraction and industrial retention are supported regionally by the Quinte Economic Development Commission. Just a few of over 350 industries located in the Bay of Quinte Region include: Schütz Canada, German manufacturer of intermediate bulk containers Essroc Canada a division of Italcementi Magna Autosystems - lighting division (3 facilities) Hannon Climate Control Canada Ltd.—Automotive parts Procter and Gamble Inc.— Feminine hygiene products Kellogg — Breakfast cereal manufacturer Kruger - manufacturing facial and toilet tissue for the away from home market Hain Celestial - manufacturing Yves Veggie Cuisine products Sprague Foods - canned and jarred soups and beans Donini Chocolate - a division of John Vince Foods Redpath Sugar Trenton Cold Storage Group Inc.—Refrigerated warehousing and distribution. Custom co-packing Lactalis Canada—Black Diamond Cheese Division—Cheese manufacturing and packaging Avaya—A telecommunications research and product development centre Research Casting International—Canadian company specializing in moulding and casting for the production of museum exhibits Cooney Transport Ltd.—Trucking company Wellington Mushroom Farm / Highline Produce—Mushroom farm Domtech—Copper wiring ClearWater Design Canoe and Kayak—Boat manufacturer The SAB Group of Companies Limited—Consumer goods company Mapco Plastics—Biodegradable plastic packaging manufacturer Citipack Distribution—Cash and carry Babars Bazaar—International commodity trading Jobsters Staffing—Staffing agency Images References External links Official website of Belleville Official website of Quinte West Official website for the Region of Bay of Quinte Central Ontario Quinte Bays of Lake Ontario
The British Open is the Open Championship men's golf tournament. British Open may also refer to: British Open (ballroom), the dancing competitions of the Blackpool Dance Festival British Open (darts), a darts tournament Women's British Open of golf British Open Show Jumping Championships British Open (snooker), an annual tournament which was originally run from 1980 until 2004 before it was revived in 2021. British Open Squash Championships British Open (tennis) or Wimbledon Championships (informally known as The Championships, Wimbledon) British Open Wheelchair Championships, a wheelchair tennis tournament that Nimrod Bichler has coached some participants of
The Baiuvarii, Bavarii, or Bavarians () were a Germanic people. The Baiuvarii had settled in modern-day Bavaria (which is named after them), Austria, and South Tyrol by the 6th century AD, and are considered to be the ancestors of modern-day Bavarians, Austrians and South Tyroleans. It is believed that they spoke an early version of the Bavarian language. Name The name of the Baiuvarii is also spelled Baiuvari. It probably means "men from Bohemia". The placename Bohemia is believed to be connected to that of the Boii, a Celtic people who partly left the region before the Roman era and then dominated by Germanic peoples. The Baiuvarii gave their name to the region of Bavaria. Language The language of the Baiuvarii is classified as Germanic. It is uncertain whether they originally spoke an East Germanic or West Germanic language. Early evidence on the language of the Baiuvarii is limited to personal names and a few Runic inscriptions. By the 8th century AD, the Baiuvarii were speakers of an early form of the Austro-Bavarian language within the West Germanic family. History The name is first attested in Latin sources in the 6th century AD. Notably, the early 6th century biography of Severinus of Noricum describes the region without mentioning them. One of the earliest references to the Baiuvarii is the Frankish Table of Nations from about 520, which describes them as a people with kinship to the Burgundians, Thuringians and Lombards. In his Getica (551), Jordanes wrote that the Suebes people under the rule of the 5th century Hunimund had lived across the Danube from Dalmatia and Pannonia with the Franks on their west, Thuringians to their north, and Burgundians to their south, and the Baibaros to their east, who may have been the Bavarians. In a poem about a pilgrimage to Augsburg in 565, Venantius Fortunatus mentions the land Baioaria on the river Lech, which north flows from the Austrian alps to the German Danube. They were between the Allemanni on the Danube and the Breones who were based near the river Inn. Evidence from the etymology of their name implies that the Baiuvarii, being named after Bohemia, can not have existed under that name before the 1st century AD. During this period Maroboduus, king of the Germanic Marcomanni, lead his people into their area which had previously been inhabited by the Celtic Boii. Whether the Baiuvarii settled Bavaria in a specific later migration, after Maroboduus, either from the north (Bohemia) or from Pannonia, is uncertain. According to Karl Bosl, Bavarian migration to present-day Bavaria is a legend. The early Baiuvarii are often associated with the Friedenhain-Přešťovice archaeological group, but this is controversial. During the time of Attila in the 5th century, the entire Middle Danube region saw the entry of many new peoples from north and east of the Carpathians, and the formation and destruction of many new political entities. It is thus more probable that the Baiuvarii emerged in the provinces of Noricum ripense and Raetia secunda following Odoacer's withdrawal of population to Italy in 488, and the subsequent expansion of Italian Ostrogothic, and Merovingian Frankish influence into the area. They are believed to have incorporated elements from several Germanic peoples, including the Sciri, Heruli, Suebi, Alemanni, Naristi, Thuringi and Lombards. They might also have included non-Germanic Romance people (romanized Celtic people). The region was under the influence of the Ostrogothic Kingdom of Theodoric the Great. During this period, the Frankish king Theudebert I (died 548) claimed control from the North Sea to Pannonia. After his death, his uncle Chlothar I appointed Garibald I as dux of Bavaria. He established the Agilolfings dynasty with his power base at Augsburg or Regensburg. By the 8th century, many Baiuvarii had converted to Christianity. Through their ruling Agilolfings dynasty, they were closely connected with the Franks. Culture A collection of Bavarian tribal laws was compiled in the 8th century. This document is known as Lex Baiuvariorum. Elements of it possibly date back to the 6th century. It is very similar to Lex Thuringorum, which was the legal code of the Thuringi, with whom the Baiuvarii had close relations. The funerary traditions of the Baiuvarii are similar to those of the Alemanni, but quite different from those of the Thuringi. Exogamy and migrant women The Baiuvarii are distinguished by the presence of individuals with artificially deformed craniums in their cemeteries. These individuals were predominantly female; there is no undisputed evidence of males with artificially deformed skulls in Bavaria. Genetic and archeological evidence shows that these women were migrants from eastern cultures, who married Bavarii males, suggesting the importance of exogamy within the Bavarii culture. The migrant women were fully integrated in to Bavarii culture. In 2018, genomic research showed that these foreign women had southeastern European and East Asian ancestry. The presence of these women among the Bavarii people indicates that men from the Bavarii culture practiced exogamy, preferentially marrying women from eastern populations. Genetics A genetic study published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America in 2018 examined the remains of 41 individuals buried at a Bavarian cemetery ca. 500 AD. Of these, 11 whole genomes were generated. The males were found to be genetically homogeneous and of north-central European origin. The females were less homogeneous, and carried less Northern European ancestry, particularly those with artificially deformed craniums, who were found to combine Southeast European and East Asian ancestry. There were significant gender differences in skin, hair and eye pigmentation in the sample. While 80% of the Bavarii males had blond hair and blue eyes, the women had much higher rates of brown eyes and darker hair colors. The foreign women with East Asian and Southern European-related ancestry, generally had brown eyes, and 60% were dark haired, it is also implied that their skin color was darker than the local population. No significant admixture with Roman populations from territories further south of the area was detected. Among modern populations, the surveyed individuals with normal skulls were found to be most closely related to modern-day Germans. See also Austrians Bavarians Elbe Germanic peoples Irminones References Notes Sources Further reading External links Early Germanic peoples German tribes History of Altbayern
Dots and boxes is a pencil-and-paper game for two players (sometimes more). It was first published in the 19th century by French mathematician Édouard Lucas, who called it . It has gone by many other names, including the dots and dashes, game of dots, dot to dot grid, boxes, and pigs in a pen. The game starts with an empty grid of dots. Usually two players take turns adding a single horizontal or vertical line between two unjoined adjacent dots. A player who completes the fourth side of a 1×1 box earns one point and takes another turn. A point is typically recorded by placing a mark that identifies the player in the box, such as an initial. The game ends when no more lines can be placed. The winner is the player with the most points. The board may be of any size grid. When short on time, or to learn the game, a 2×2 board (3×3 dots) is suitable. A 5×5 board, on the other hand, is good for experts. Strategy For most novice players, the game begins with a phase of more-or-less randomly connecting dots, where the only strategy is to avoid adding the third side to any box. This continues until all the remaining (potential) boxes are joined together into chains – groups of one or more adjacent boxes in which any move gives all the boxes in the chain to the opponent. At this point, players typically take all available boxes, then open the smallest available chain to their opponent. For example, a novice player faced with a situation like position 1 in the diagram on the right, in which some boxes can be captured, may take all the boxes in the chain, resulting in position 2. But with their last move, they have to open the next, larger chain, and the novice loses the game. A more experienced player faced with position 1 will instead play the double-cross strategy, taking all but 2 of the boxes in the chain and leaving position 3. The opponent will take these two boxes and then be forced to open the next chain. By achieving position 3, player A wins. The same double-cross strategy applies no matter how many long chains there are: a player using this strategy will take all but two boxes in each chain and take all the boxes in the last chain. If the chains are long enough, then this player will win. The next level of strategic complexity, between experts who would both use the double-cross strategy (if they were allowed to), is a battle for control: an expert player tries to force their opponent to open the first long chain, because the player who first opens a long chain usually loses. Against a player who does not understand the concept of a sacrifice, the expert simply has to make the correct number of sacrifices to encourage the opponent to hand them the first chain long enough to ensure a win. If the other player also sacrifices, the expert has to additionally manipulate the number of available sacrifices through earlier play. In combinatorial game theory, Dots and Boxes is an impartial game and many positions can be analyzed using Sprague–Grundy theory. However, Dots and Boxes lacks the normal play convention of most impartial games (where the last player to move wins), which complicates the analysis considerably. Unusual grids and variants Dots and Boxes need not be played on a rectangular gridit can be played on a triangular grid or a hexagonal grid. Dots and boxes has a dual graph form called "Strings-and-Coins". This game is played on a network of coins (vertices) joined by strings (edges). Players take turns cutting a string. When a cut leaves a coin with no strings, the player "pockets" the coin and takes another turn. The winner is the player who pockets the most coins. Strings-and-Coins can be played on an arbitrary graph. In analyses of Dots and Boxes, a game that starts with outer lines already drawn is called a Swedish board while the standard version that starts fully blank is called an American board. An intermediate version with only the left and bottom sides starting with drawn lines is called an Icelandic board. A related game is Dots, played by adding coloured dots to a blank grid, and joining them with straight or diagonal line in an attempt to surround an opponent's dots. References External links Abstract strategy games Mathematical games Paper-and-pencil games 1889 introductions
A broadcast domain is a logical division of a computer network, in which all nodes can reach each other by broadcast at the data link layer. A broadcast domain can be within the same LAN segment or it can be bridged to other LAN segments. In terms of current popular technologies, any computer connected to the same Ethernet repeater or switch is a member of the same broadcast domain. Further, any computer connected to the same set of interconnected switches/repeaters is a member of the same broadcast domain. Routers and other higher-layer devices form boundaries between broadcast domains. The notion of broadcast domain should be contrasted with that of collision domain, which would be all nodes on the same set of inter-connected repeaters, divided by switches and learning bridges. Collision domains are generally smaller than, and contained within, broadcast domains. While some data-link-layer devices are able to divide the collision domains, broadcast domains are only divided by layer 3 network devices such as routers or layer 3 switches. Separating VLANs divides broadcast domains as well. Further explanation The distinction between broadcast and collision domains comes about because simple Ethernet and similar systems use a shared transmission system. In simple Ethernet (without switches or bridges), data frames are transmitted to all other nodes on a network. Each receiving node checks the destination address of each frame, and simply ignores any frame not addressed to its own MAC address or the broadcast address. Switches act as buffers, receiving and analyzing the frames from each connected network segment. Frames destined for nodes connected to the originating segment are not forwarded by the switch. Frames destined for a specific node on a different segment are sent only to that segment. Only broadcast frames are forwarded to all other segments. This reduces unnecessary traffic and collisions. In such a switched network, transmitted frames may not be received by all other reachable nodes. Nominally, only broadcast frames will be received by all other nodes. Collisions are localized to the physical-layer network segment they occur on. Thus, the broadcast domain is the entire inter-connected layer 2 network, and the segments connected to each switch/bridge port are each a collision domain. To clarify; repeaters do not divide collision domains but switches do. This means that since switches have become commonplace, collision domains are isolated to the specific half-duplex segment between the switch port and the connected node. Full-duplex segments, or links, don't form a collision domain as there is a dedicated channel between each transmitter and receiver, making collisions a thing of the past in modern wired networks. In a switched network, enabling promiscuous mode for packet capturing results in no extra data being collected, as a NIC with promiscuous mode enabled simply neglects to drop Ethernet frames with a destination field populated with a MAC from another device. Such frames would not be forwarded by the switch to any ports on which that MAC is not communicating and with which it is associated in the MAC address table. Not all network systems or media feature broadcast/collision domains. For example, PPP links. Broadcast domain control With a sufficiently sophisticated switch, it is possible to create a network in which the normal notion of a broadcast domain is strictly controlled. One implementation of this concept is termed a "private VLAN". Another implementation is possible with Linux and iptables. One analogy is that by creating multiple VLANs, the number of broadcast domains increases, but the size of each broadcast domain decreases. This is because a VLAN (or virtual LAN) is technically a broadcast domain. This is achieved by designating one or more "server" or "provider" nodes, either by MAC address or switch port. Broadcast frames are allowed to originate from these sources and are sent to all other nodes. Broadcast frames from all other sources are directed only to the server/provider nodes. Traffic from other sources not destined to the server/provider nodes ("peer-to-peer" traffic) is blocked. The result is a network based on a nominally shared transmission system; like Ethernet, but in which "client" nodes cannot communicate with each other, only with the server/provider. A common application is Internet providers. Allowing direct data link layer communication between customer nodes exposes the network to various security attacks, such as ARP spoofing. Controlling the broadcast domain in this fashion provides many of the advantages of a point-to-point network, using commodity broadcast-based hardware. See also Network layer Collision domain References Collision and broadcast domain, Study CCNA Collision Domains vs. Broadcast Domains , Cisco Skills Collision Domain and Broadcast Domain on YouTube Network architecture
Beechcraft is an American brand of civil aviation and military aircraft owned by Textron Aviation since 2014, headquartered in Wichita, Kansas. Originally, it was a brand of Beech Aircraft Corporation, an American manufacturer of general aviation, commercial, and military aircraft, ranging from light single-engined aircraft to twin-engined turboprop transports, business jets, and military trainers. Beech later became a division of Raytheon and then Hawker Beechcraft before a bankruptcy sale turned its assets over to Textron (parent company of Beech's historical cross-town Wichita rival, Cessna Aircraft Company). It remains a brand of Textron Aviation. History Beech Aircraft Company was founded in Wichita, Kansas, in 1932 by Walter Beech as president, his wife Olive Ann Beech as secretary, Ted A. Wells as vice president of engineering, K. K. Shaul as treasurer, and investor C. G. Yankey as vice president. The company began operations in an idle Cessna factory. With designer Ted Wells, they developed the first aircraft under the Beechcraft name, the classic Beechcraft Model 17 Staggerwing, which first flew in November 1932. Over 750 Staggerwings were built, with 352 manufactured for the United States Army Air Forces and 67 for the United States Navy during World War II. Beechcraft was not Beech's first company, as he had previously formed Travel Air in 1924 and the design numbers used at Beechcraft followed the sequence started at Travel Air, and were then continued at Curtiss-Wright, after Travel Air had been absorbed into the much larger company in 1929. Beech became president of the Curtiss-Wright's airplane division and VP of sales, but became dissatisfied with being so far removed from aircraft production and quit to form Beechcraft, using the original Travel Air facilities and employing many of the same people. Model numbers prior to 11/11000 were built under the "Travel Air" name, while Curtiss-Wright built the CW-12, 14, 15, and 16 as well as previous successful Travel Air models (mostly the model 4). In 1942 Beech won its first Army-Navy "E" Award production award and became one of the elite five percent of war contracting firms in the country to win five straight awards for production efficiency, mostly for the production of the Beechcraft Model 18 which remains in widespread use worldwide. Beechcraft ranked 69th among United States corporations in the value of World War II military production contracts. After the war, the Staggerwing was replaced by the revolutionary Beechcraft Bonanza with a distinctive V-tail. Perhaps the best known Beech aircraft, the single-engined Bonanza has been manufactured in various models since 1947. The Bonanza has had the longest production run of any airplane, past or present, in the world. Other important Beech aircraft are the King Air and Super King Air line of twin-engined turboprops, in production since 1964, the Baron, a twin-engined variant of the Bonanza, and the Beechcraft Model 18, originally a business transport and commuter airliner from the late 1930s through the 1960s, which remains in active service as a cargo transport. In 1950, Olive Ann Beech was installed as president and CEO of the company, after the sudden death of her husband from a heart attack on November 29 of that year. She continued as CEO until Beech was purchased by Raytheon Company on February 8, 1980. Ted Wells had been replaced as chief engineer by Herbert Rawdon, who remained at the post until his retirement in the early 1960s. Throughout much of the mid-to-late 20th century, Beechcraft was considered one of the "Big Three" in the field of general aviation manufacturing, along with Cessna and Piper Aircraft. In 1973, Beechcraft found Beechcraft Heritage Museum to host its historical aircraft. In 1994, Raytheon merged Beechcraft with the Hawker product line it had acquired in 1993 from British Aerospace, forming Raytheon Aircraft Company. In 2002, the Beechcraft brand was revived to again designate the Wichita-produced aircraft. In 2006, Raytheon sold Raytheon Aircraft to Goldman Sachs creating Hawker Beechcraft. Since its inception Beechcraft has resided in Wichita, Kansas, also the home of chief competitor Cessna, the birthplace of Learjet and of Stearman, whose trainers were used in large numbers during WW II. The entry into bankruptcy of Hawker Beechcraft on May 3, 2012 ended with its emergence on February 16, 2013 as a new entity, Beechcraft Corporation, with the Hawker Beechcraft name being retired. The new and much smaller company produce the King Air line of aircraft as well as the T-6 and AT-6 military trainer/attack aircraft, as well as the piston-powered single-engined Bonanza and twin-engined Baron aircraft. The jet line was discontinued, but the new company continues to support the aircraft already produced with parts, plus engineering and airworthiness documentation. By October 2013, the company, now financially turned around, was up for sale. On December 26, 2013, Textron agreed to purchase Beechcraft, including the discontinued Hawker jet line, for $1.4 billion. The sale was concluded in the first half of 2014, with government approval. Textron CEO Scott Donnelly indicated that Beechcraft and Cessna would be combined to form a new light aircraft manufacturing concern, Textron Aviation, that would result in US$65M–$85M in annual savings over keeping the companies separate. Textron has kept both the Beechcraft and Cessna names as separate brands. Products As of July 2019, Textron Aviation was producing the following models under the Beechcraft brand name: Beechcraft Bonanza series – single-engined piston general aviation aircraft Beechcraft Baron – twin-engined piston utility aircraft Beechcraft Denali (Super) King Air C-12 Huron (military version) Beechcraft T-6 Texan II/CT-156 Harvard II – single-engined turboprop military trainer, based on Pilatus PC-9 Facilities Beech Factory Airport – houses Beechcraft's head office, manufacturing facility, and runway for test flights See also Beech Aircraft Corp. v. Rainey References Notes Bibliography External links Beechcraft website Beechcraft Heritage Museum Aerofiles – Beechcraft model information Aircraft-Info.net – Beechcraft Aircraft manufacturers of the United States Companies based in Wichita, Kansas Manufacturing companies based in Kansas Manufacturing companies established in 1932 1932 establishments in Kansas Textron 2014 mergers and acquisitions Companies that filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in 2012 American companies established in 1932 American brands
In propositional logic, biconditional introduction is a valid rule of inference. It allows for one to infer a biconditional from two conditional statements. The rule makes it possible to introduce a biconditional statement into a logical proof. If is true, and if is true, then one may infer that is true. For example, from the statements "if I'm breathing, then I'm alive" and "if I'm alive, then I'm breathing", it can be inferred that "I'm breathing if and only if I'm alive". Biconditional introduction is the converse of biconditional elimination. The rule can be stated formally as: where the rule is that wherever instances of "" and "" appear on lines of a proof, "" can validly be placed on a subsequent line. Formal notation The biconditional introduction rule may be written in sequent notation: where is a metalogical symbol meaning that is a syntactic consequence when and are both in a proof; or as the statement of a truth-functional tautology or theorem of propositional logic: where , and are propositions expressed in some formal system. References Rules of inference Theorems in propositional logic
Biconditional elimination is the name of two valid rules of inference of propositional logic. It allows for one to infer a conditional from a biconditional. If is true, then one may infer that is true, and also that is true. For example, if it's true that I'm breathing if and only if I'm alive, then it's true that if I'm breathing, I'm alive; likewise, it's true that if I'm alive, I'm breathing. The rules can be stated formally as: and where the rule is that wherever an instance of "" appears on a line of a proof, either "" or "" can be placed on a subsequent line; Formal notation The biconditional elimination rule may be written in sequent notation: and where is a metalogical symbol meaning that , in the first case, and in the other are syntactic consequences of in some logical system; or as the statement of a truth-functional tautology or theorem of propositional logic: where , and are propositions expressed in some formal system. See also Logical biconditional References Rules of inference Theorems in propositional logic
(, or , ), sometimes anglicized as bocce ball, bocci, or boccie, is a ball sport belonging to the boules family. Developed into its present form in Italy, it is closely related to British bowls and French , with a common ancestry from ancient games played in the Roman Empire. Bocce is played around Western, Southern, and Southeastern Europe, as well as in overseas areas with historical Italian immigrant population, including Australia, North America, and South America, principally Argentina and the southern Brazilian states of Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina. Initially it was only played by the Italian immigrants, the game has slowly become more popular among their descendants and more people around the world. History Having developed from games played in the Roman Empire, Bocce developed into its present form in Italy, where it is called , the plural of the Italian word which means 'bowl' in the general sporting sense, it spread around Europe and also in regions to which Italians have migrated. First form of regulation was described in the book "Gioco delle bocchie" by Raffaele Bisteghi in 1753. In South America it is known as , or bolas criollas ('Criollo balls') in Venezuela, and in southern Brazil. The accessibility of bocce to people of all ages and abilities has seen it grow in popularity among Special Olympics programmes globally and it is now the third most played sport among Special Olympics athletes. Geographical spread The sport is also very popular on the eastern side of the Adriatic, especially in Croatia, Serbia, Montenegro, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, where the sport is known in Serbo-Croatian as ('playing ') or (colloquially also ). In Slovenia the sport is known as or colloquially 'playing ', or (from Italian and Venetian , meaning 'balls'). There are numerous bocce leagues in the United States. Most have been founded by Italian Americans but contain members of all groups. Rules and play Bocce is traditionally played on a natural soil or asphalt court up to in length and wide. While the court walls are traditionally made of wood or stone, many social leagues and Special Olympics programs now use inflatable 'Packabocce' PVC courts due to their portability and ease of storage. Bocce balls can be made of wood (traditional), metal, baked clay, or various kinds of plastic. Unlike lawn bowls, bocce balls are spherical and have no inbuilt bias. A game can be conducted between two players, or two teams of two, three, or four. A match is started by a randomly chosen side being given the opportunity to throw a smaller ball, the jack (called a ('little bocce') or ('bullet' or 'little ball') in Italian, depending on local custom), from one end of the court into a zone in length, ending from the far end of the court. If the first team misses twice, the other team is awarded the opportunity to place the jack anywhere they choose within the prescribed zone. Casual play is common in reasonably flat areas of parks and yards lacking a Bocce court, but players should agree to the minimum and maximum distance the jack may be thrown before play begins. The side that first attempted to place the jack is given the opportunity to bowl first. Once the first bowl has taken place, the other side has the opportunity to bowl. From then on, the side which does not have the ball closest to the jack has a chance to bowl, up until one side or the other has used their four balls. At that point, the other side bowls its remaining balls. The object of the game is for a team to get as many of its balls as possible closer to the target ball (jack, boccino, pallino) than the opposing team. The team with the closest ball to the jack is the only team that can score points in any frame. The scoring team receives one point for each of their balls that is closer to the jack than the closest ball of the other team. The length of a game varies by region but is typically from 7 to 13 points. Players are permitted to throw the ball in the air using an underarm action. This is generally used to knock either the jack or another ball away to attain a more favorable position. Tactics can get quite complex when players have sufficient control over the ball to throw or roll it accurately. Variants Bocce volo A variation called uses a metal ball, which is thrown overhand (palm down), after a run-up to the throwing line. In that latter respect, it is similar to the French boules game also known as which is internationally called sport-boules. Another French variant of the game is called , and (lacking the run-up) is more similar in some respects to traditional . Boccia Another development, for persons with disabilities, is called . It is a shorter-range game, played with leather balls on an indoor, smooth surface. Boccia was first introduced to the Paralympics at the 1984 New York/Stoke Mandeville Summer Games, and is one of the only two Paralympic sports that do not have an Olympic counterpart (the other being goalball). See also Fédération Internationale de Boules References External links Confederation Mondiale des Sports de Boules International Bocce Federation (FIB) Boules Lawn games Sports originating in Italy Articles containing video clips
Beatmatching or pitch cue is a disc jockey technique of pitch shifting or time stretching an upcoming track to match its tempo to that of the currently playing track, and to adjust them such that the beats (and, usually, the bars) are synchronized—e.g. the kicks and snares in two house records hit at the same time when both records are played simultaneously. Beatmatching is a component of beatmixing which employs beatmatching combined with equalization, attention to phrasing and track selection in an attempt to make a single mix that flows together and has a good structure. The technique was developed to keep the people from leaving the dancefloor at the end of the song. These days it is considered basic among disc jockeys (DJs) in electronic dance music genres, and it is standard practice in clubs to keep the constant beat through the night, even if DJs change in the middle. Technique The beatmatching technique consists of the following steps: While a record is playing, start a second record playing, but only monitored through headphones, not being fed to the main PA system. Use gain (or trim) control on the mixer to match the levels of the two records. Restart and slip-cue the new record at the right time, on beat with the record currently playing. If the beat on the new record hits before the beat on the current record, then the new record is too fast; reduce the pitch and manually slow the speed of the new record to bring the beats back in sync. If the beat on the new record hits after the beat on the current record, then the new record is too slow; increase the pitch and manually increase the speed of the new record to bring the beats back in sync. Continue this process until the two records are in sync with each other. It can be difficult to sync the two records perfectly, so manual adjustment of the records is necessary to maintain the beat synchronization. Gradually fade in parts of the new track while fading out the old track. While in the mix, ensure that the tracks are still synchronized, adjusting the records if needed. The fade can be repeated several times, for example, from the first track, fade to the second track, then back to first, then to second again. One of the key things to consider when beatmatching is the tempo of both songs, and the musical theory behind the songs. Attempting to beatmatch songs with completely different beats per minute (BPM) will result in one of the songs sounding too fast or too slow. When beatmatching, a popular technique is to vary the equalization of both tracks. For example, when the kicks are occurring on the same beat, a more seamless transition can occur if the lower frequencies are taken out of one of the songs, and the lower frequencies of the other song is boosted. Doing so creates a smoother transition. Pitch and tempo The pitch and tempo of a track are normally linked together: spin a disc 5% faster and both pitch and tempo will be 5% higher. However, some modern DJ software can change pitch and tempo independently using time-stretching and pitch-shifting, allowing harmonic mixing. There is also a feature in modern DJ software which may be called "master tempo" or "key adjust" which changes the tempo while keeping the original pitch. History Francis Grasso was one of the first people to beatmatch in the late 1960s, being taught the technique by Bob Lewis. These days beat-matching is considered central to DJing, and features making it possible are a requirement for DJ-oriented players. In 1978, the Technics SL-1200MK2 turntable was released, whose comfortable and precise sliding pitch control and high torque direct drive motor made beat-matching easier and it became the standard among DJs. With the advent of the compact disc, DJ-oriented compact disc players with pitch control and other features enabling beat-matching (and sometimes scratching), dubbed CDJs, were introduced by various companies. More recently, software with similar capabilities has been developed to allow manipulation of digital audio files stored on computers using turntables with special vinyl records (e.g. Final Scratch, M-Audio Torq, Serato Scratch Live) or computer interface (e.g. Traktor DJ Studio, Mixxx, VirtualDJ). Other software including algorithmic beat-matching is Ableton Live, which allows for realtime music manipulation and deconstruction. Freeware software such as Rapid Evolution can detect the beats per minute and determine the percent BPM difference between songs. Most modern DJ hardware and software now offer a "sync" feature which automatically adjusts the tempo between tracks being mixed so the DJ no longer needs to beatmatch manually. See also Clubdjpro DJ mix Harmonic mixing Mashup Segue References Audio mixing Disco DJing American inventions
In mathematics, specifically in measure theory, a Borel measure on a topological space is a measure that is defined on all open sets (and thus on all Borel sets). Some authors require additional restrictions on the measure, as described below. Formal definition Let be a locally compact Hausdorff space, and let be the smallest σ-algebra that contains the open sets of ; this is known as the σ-algebra of Borel sets. A Borel measure is any measure defined on the σ-algebra of Borel sets. A few authors require in addition that is locally finite, meaning that for every compact set . If a Borel measure is both inner regular and outer regular, it is called a regular Borel measure. If is both inner regular, outer regular, and locally finite, it is called a Radon measure. On the real line The real line with its usual topology is a locally compact Hausdorff space; hence we can define a Borel measure on it. In this case, is the smallest σ-algebra that contains the open intervals of . While there are many Borel measures μ, the choice of Borel measure that assigns for every half-open interval is sometimes called "the" Borel measure on . This measure turns out to be the restriction to the Borel σ-algebra of the Lebesgue measure , which is a complete measure and is defined on the Lebesgue σ-algebra. The Lebesgue σ-algebra is actually the completion of the Borel σ-algebra, which means that it is the smallest σ-algebra that contains all the Borel sets and can be equipped with a complete measure. Also, the Borel measure and the Lebesgue measure coincide on the Borel sets (i.e., for every Borel measurable set, where is the Borel measure described above). Product spaces If X and Y are second-countable, Hausdorff topological spaces, then the set of Borel subsets of their product coincides with the product of the sets of Borel subsets of X and Y. That is, the Borel functor from the category of second-countable Hausdorff spaces to the category of measurable spaces preserves finite products. Applications Lebesgue–Stieltjes integral The Lebesgue–Stieltjes integral is the ordinary Lebesgue integral with respect to a measure known as the Lebesgue–Stieltjes measure, which may be associated to any function of bounded variation on the real line. The Lebesgue–Stieltjes measure is a regular Borel measure, and conversely every regular Borel measure on the real line is of this kind. Laplace transform One can define the Laplace transform of a finite Borel measure μ on the real line by the Lebesgue integral An important special case is where μ is a probability measure or, even more specifically, the Dirac delta function. In operational calculus, the Laplace transform of a measure is often treated as though the measure came from a distribution function f. In that case, to avoid potential confusion, one often writes where the lower limit of 0− is shorthand notation for This limit emphasizes that any point mass located at 0 is entirely captured by the Laplace transform. Although with the Lebesgue integral, it is not necessary to take such a limit, it does appear more naturally in connection with the Laplace–Stieltjes transform. Hausdorff dimension and Frostman's lemma Given a Borel measure μ on a metric space X such that μ(X) > 0 and μ(B(x, r)) ≤ rs holds for some constant s > 0 and for every ball B(x, r) in X, then the Hausdorff dimension dimHaus(X) ≥ s. A partial converse is provided by the Frostman lemma: Lemma: Let A be a Borel subset of Rn, and let s > 0. Then the following are equivalent: Hs(A) > 0, where Hs denotes the s-dimensional Hausdorff measure. There is an (unsigned) Borel measure μ satisfying μ(A) > 0, and such that holds for all x ∈ Rn and r > 0. Cramér–Wold theorem The Cramér–Wold theorem in measure theory states that a Borel probability measure on is uniquely determined by the totality of its one-dimensional projections. It is used as a method for proving joint convergence results. The theorem is named after Harald Cramér and Herman Ole Andreas Wold. References Further reading Gaussian measure, a finite-dimensional Borel measure . Wiener's lemma related External links Borel measure at Encyclopedia of Mathematics Measures (measure theory)
Brittonic or Brythonic may refer to: Common Brittonic, or Brythonic, the Celtic language anciently spoken in Great Britain Brittonic languages, a branch of the Celtic languages descended from Common Brittonic Britons (Celtic people), or Celtic Britons, the Celtic people of Great Britain in ancient times Language and nationality disambiguation pages
Bavarian is the adjective form of the German state of Bavaria, and refers to people of ancestry from Bavaria. Bavarian may also refer to: Bavarii, a Germanic tribe Bavarians, a nation and ethnographic group of Germans Bavarian, Iran, a village in Fars Province Bavarian language, a West Germanic language See also Bavaria (disambiguation) Language and nationality disambiguation pages
A backplane (or "backplane system") is a group of electrical connectors in parallel with each other, so that each pin of each connector is linked to the same relative pin of all the other connectors, forming a computer bus. It is used to connect several printed circuit boards together to make up a complete computer system. Backplanes commonly use a printed circuit board, but wire-wrapped backplanes have also been used in minicomputers and high-reliability applications. A backplane is generally differentiated from a motherboard by the lack of on-board processing and storage elements. A backplane uses plug-in cards for storage and processing. Usage Early microcomputer systems like the Altair 8800 used a backplane for the processor and expansion cards. Backplanes are normally used in preference to cables because of their greater reliability. In a cabled system, the cables need to be flexed every time that a card is added or removed from the system; this flexing eventually causes mechanical failures. A backplane does not suffer from this problem, so its service life is limited only by the longevity of its connectors. For example, DIN 41612 connectors (used in the VMEbus system) have three durability grades built to withstand (respectively) 50, 400 and 500 insertions and removals, or "mating cycles". To transmit information, Serial Back-Plane technology uses a low-voltage differential signaling transmission method for sending information. In addition, there are bus expansion cables which will extend a computer bus to an external backplane, usually located in an enclosure, to provide more or different slots than the host computer provides. These cable sets have a transmitter board located in the computer, an expansion board in the remote backplane, and a cable between the two. Active versus passive backplanes Backplanes have grown in complexity from the simple Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) (used in the original IBM PC) or S-100 style where all the connectors were connected to a common bus. Due to limitations inherent in the Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) specification for driving slots, backplanes are now offered as passive and active. True passive backplanes offer no active bus driving circuitry. Any desired arbitration logic is placed on the daughter cards. Active backplanes include chips which buffer the various signals to the slots. The distinction between the two isn't always clear, but may become an important issue if a whole system is expected to not have a single point of failure (SPOF) . Common myth around passive backplane, even if it is single, is not usually considered a SPOF. Active back-planes are even more complicated and thus have a non-zero risk of malfunction. However one situation that can cause disruption both in the case of Active and Passive Back-planes is while performing maintenance activities i.e. while swapping boards there is always a possibility of damaging the Pins/Connectors on the Back-plane, this may cause full outage for the system as all boards mounted on the back-plane should be removed in order to fix the system. Therefore, we are seeing newer architectures where systems use high speed redundant connectivity to interconnect system boards point to point with No Single Point of Failure anywhere in the system. Backplanes versus motherboards When a backplane is used with a plug-in single-board computer (SBC) or system host board (SHB), the combination provides the same functionality as a motherboard, providing processing power, memory, I/O and slots for plug-in cards. While there are a few motherboards that offer more than 8 slots, that is the traditional limit. In addition, as technology progresses, the availability and number of a particular slot type may be limited in terms of what is currently offered by motherboard manufacturers. However, backplane architecture is somewhat unrelated to the SBC technology plugged into it. There are some limitations to what can be constructed, in that the SBC chip set and processor have to provide the capability of supporting the slot types. In addition, virtually an unlimited number of slots can be provided with 20, including the SBC slot, as a practical though not an absolute limit. Thus, a PICMG backplane can provide any number and any mix of ISA, PCI, PCI-X, and PCI-e slots, limited only by the ability of the SBC to interface to and drive those slots. For example, an SBC with the latest i7 processor could interface with a backplane providing up to 19 ISA slots to drive legacy I/O cards. Midplane Some backplanes are constructed with slots for connecting to devices on both sides, and are referred to as midplanes. This ability to plug cards into either side of a midplane is often useful in larger systems made up primarily of modules attached to the midplane. Midplanes are often used in computers, mostly in blade servers, where server blades reside on one side and the peripheral (power, networking, and other I/O) and service modules reside on the other. Midplanes are also popular in networking and telecommunications equipment where one side of the chassis accepts system processing cards and the other side of the chassis accepts network interface cards. Orthogonal midplanes connect vertical cards on one side to horizontal boards on the other side. One common orthogonal midplane connects many vertical telephone line cards on one side, each one connected to copper telephone wires, to a horizontal communications card on the other side. A "virtual midplane" is an imaginary plane between vertical cards on one side that directly connect to horizontal boards on the other side; the card-slot aligners of the card cage and self-aligning connectors on the cards hold the cards in position. Some people use the term "midplane" to describe a board that sits between and connects a hard drive hot-swap backplane and redundant power supplies. Backplanes in storage Servers commonly have a backplane to attach hot swappable hard disk drives and solid state drives; backplane pins pass directly into hard drive sockets without cables. They may have single connector to connect one disk array controller or multiple connectors that can be connected to one or more controllers in arbitrary way. Backplanes are commonly found in disk enclosures, disk arrays, and servers. Backplanes for SAS and SATA HDDs most commonly use the SGPIO protocol as means of communication between the host adapter and the backplane. Alternatively SCSI Enclosure Services can be used. With Parallel SCSI subsystems, SAF-TE is used. Platforms PICMG A single-board computer meeting the PICMG 1.3 specification and compatible with a PICMG 1.3 backplane is referred to as a System Host Board. In the Intel Single-Board Computer world, PICMG provides standards for the backplane interface: PICMG 1.0, 1.1 and 1.2 provide ISA and PCI support, with 1.2 adding PCIX support. PICMG 1.3 provides PCI-Express support. See also Motherboard Switched fabric Daughterboard M-Module SS-50 Bus STD Bus STEbus Eurocard (printed circuit board) VXI References Further reading Computer buses
A baldric (also baldrick, bawdrick, bauldrick as well as other rare or obsolete variations) is a belt worn over one shoulder that is typically used to carry a weapon (usually a sword) or other implement such as a bugle or drum. The word may also refer to any belt in general, but this usage is poetic or archaic. In modern contexts, military drum majors usually wear a baldric. Usage Baldrics have been used since ancient times, usually as part of military dress. The design offers more support for weight than a standard waist belt, without restricting movement of the arms, and while allowing easy access to the object carried. Alternatively, and especially in modern times, the baldric may fill a ceremonial role rather than a practical one. Most Roman tombstones in the third century had depictions of white baldrics. Design One end of the baldric was broad and finished in a straight edge, while the other was tapered to a narrow strip. The narrow end was brought through a scabbard runner, it was probably wrapped around the scabbard twice. Circular metal discs called Phalera were attached to the broad end. Four leather baldrics were found in Vimose and Thorsbjerg. One of these measured 118 long and 8 cm wide. Roman balteus During ancient Roman times the balteus (plural baltei) was a type of baldric commonly used to suspend a sword. It was a belt generally worn over the shoulder, passing obliquely down to the side, typically made of leather, often ornamented with precious stones, metals or both. There was also a similar belt worn by the Romans, particularly by soldiers, called a cintus (pl. cinti) that fastened around the waist. The word accintus meaning a soldier (literally, "girt" as for battle) attests to this differing usage. Today Many non-military or paramilitary organisations include baldrics as part of ceremonial dress. The Knights of Columbus 4th Degree Colour Corps uses a baldric as part of their uniform; it supports a ceremonial sword. The University of Illinois Marching Illini wore two baldrics as a part of their uniform until 2009, with one over each shoulder. They crossed in the front and back and were buttoned onto the jacket beneath a cape and epaulets. Today, the current Marching Illini wear one baldric with two sides, ILLINI on one side and the traditional orange and white baldric from the previous uniform on the other. A crossed pair of baldrics is often worn as part of the uniform of Morris dancers; different coloured baldrics help to distinguish different sides. In literature and culture Baldrics appear in the classical literary canon, and later in fantasy and science fiction genres. The decorated baldric of Pallas plays a key part in the Aeneid, leading Aeneas to kill Turnus. (1st century BC) In Sir Gawain and the Green Knight Gawain returns from his battle with the Green Knight wearing the green girdle "obliquely, like a baldric, bound at his side,/ below his left shoulder, laced in a knot, in betokening the blame he had borne for his fault." (14th century) The yeoman in Chaucer's Canterbury Tales is described as wearing a "baldrick of bright green." (14th century) Benedick, from William Shakespeare's Much Ado About Nothing, says "But that I will have a recheat winded in my forehead or hang my bugle in an invisible baldric all women shall pardon me." (15th century) Britomart, in Edmund Spenser's Faerie Queene, clothes herself in a borrowed armour "with brave bauldrick garnished" before embarking on her quest (Book III, canto iii,). (16th century) A baldric features prominently in Chapter 4 of Alexandre Dumas' The Three Musketeers. (19th century) Walter Scott in Ivanhoe published in 1819 describes a Yeoman "with a baldric and a badge of silver". (19th century) In The Fellowship of the Ring, Boromir is described: "On a baldric he wore a great horn tipped with silver that now was laid upon his knees." (20th century) A baldrick is also mentioned in the epic poem by Alfred, Lord Tennyson; The Lady of Shalott; in the tenth stanza: 'And from his blazon'd baldric slung, A mighty silver bugle hung'. (19th century, from 13th century) Some species and factions such as Klingons wear baldrics in Star Trek, such as Kor, Koloth, Kang or Worf although sometimes they are referred to as a sash. The character Worf does so in almost every one of his appearances through two series and four films. In The Next Generation episode "Conundrum", Worf, due to amnesia, mistakenly believes that the baldric indicates his rank or authority, so he briefly assumes command of the Enterprise. (20th century) Baldrick is a character played by Tony Robinson in the BBC comedy series Blackadder . (20th century) Pirates of the Caribbean features baldrics worn by many characters including Jack Sparrow, Elizabeth Swann, Will Turner, Hector Barbossa, Davy Jones, Blackbeard, and Angelica. Doctor Who features Silurian warrior Vastra and human maid Jenny Flint use baldrics to carry katana swords. Joshamee Gibbs, See also Baldrick (Blackadder character) Bandolier Sam Browne belt Shoulder belt Webbing References Ancient Roman legionary equipment Military uniforms Ancient Roman military clothing Belts (clothing) fr:Baudrier lt:Perpetė
In mathematics, a bilinear map is a function combining elements of two vector spaces to yield an element of a third vector space, and is linear in each of its arguments. Matrix multiplication is an example. Definition Vector spaces Let and be three vector spaces over the same base field . A bilinear map is a function such that for all , the map is a linear map from to and for all , the map is a linear map from to In other words, when we hold the first entry of the bilinear map fixed while letting the second entry vary, the result is a linear operator, and similarly for when we hold the second entry fixed. Such a map satisfies the following properties. For any , The map is additive in both components: if and then and If and we have for all then we say that B is symmetric. If X is the base field F, then the map is called a bilinear form, which are well-studied (for example: scalar product, inner product, and quadratic form). Modules The definition works without any changes if instead of vector spaces over a field F, we use modules over a commutative ring R. It generalizes to n-ary functions, where the proper term is multilinear. For non-commutative rings R and S, a left R-module M and a right S-module N, a bilinear map is a map with T an -bimodule, and for which any n in N, is an R-module homomorphism, and for any m in M, is an S-module homomorphism. This satisfies B(r ⋅ m, n) = r ⋅ B(m, n) B(m, n ⋅ s) = B(m, n) ⋅ s for all m in M, n in N, r in R and s in S, as well as B being additive in each argument. Properties An immediate consequence of the definition is that whenever or . This may be seen by writing the zero vector 0V as (and similarly for 0W) and moving the scalar 0 "outside", in front of B, by linearity. The set of all bilinear maps is a linear subspace of the space (viz. vector space, module) of all maps from into X. If V, W, X are finite-dimensional, then so is . For that is, bilinear forms, the dimension of this space is (while the space of linear forms is of dimension ). To see this, choose a basis for V and W; then each bilinear map can be uniquely represented by the matrix , and vice versa. Now, if X is a space of higher dimension, we obviously have . Examples Matrix multiplication is a bilinear map . If a vector space V over the real numbers carries an inner product, then the inner product is a bilinear map The product vector space has one dimension. In general, for a vector space V over a field F, a bilinear form on V is the same as a bilinear map . If V is a vector space with dual space V∗, then the application operator, is a bilinear map from to the base field. Let V and W be vector spaces over the same base field F. If f is a member of V∗ and g a member of W∗, then defines a bilinear map . The cross product in is a bilinear map Let be a bilinear map, and be a linear map, then is a bilinear map on . Continuity and separate continuity Suppose and are topological vector spaces and let be a bilinear map. Then b is said to be if the following two conditions hold: for all the map given by is continuous; for all the map given by is continuous. Many separately continuous bilinear that are not continuous satisfy an additional property: hypocontinuity. All continuous bilinear maps are hypocontinuous. Sufficient conditions for continuity Many bilinear maps that occur in practice are separately continuous but not all are continuous. We list here sufficient conditions for a separately continuous bilinear to be continuous. If X is a Baire space and Y is metrizable then every separately continuous bilinear map is continuous. If are the strong duals of Fréchet spaces then every separately continuous bilinear map is continuous. If a bilinear map is continuous at (0, 0) then it is continuous everywhere. Composition map Let be locally convex Hausdorff spaces and let be the composition map defined by In general, the bilinear map is not continuous (no matter what topologies the spaces of linear maps are given). We do, however, have the following results: Give all three spaces of linear maps one of the following topologies: give all three the topology of bounded convergence; give all three the topology of compact convergence; give all three the topology of pointwise convergence. If is an equicontinuous subset of then the restriction is continuous for all three topologies. If is a barreled space then for every sequence converging to in and every sequence converging to in the sequence converges to in See also References Bibliography External links Bilinear maps Multilinear algebra
Arthur Blake (1896 – December 1, 1934), known as Blind Blake, was an American blues and ragtime singer and guitarist. He is known for recordings he made for Paramount Records between 1926 and 1932. Early life Little is known of Blake's life. Promotional materials from Paramount Records indicate he was born blind and give his birthplace as Jacksonville, Florida, and it seems that he lived there during various periods. He may have had relatives in Patterson, Georgia. Some authors have written that in one recording he slipped into a Geechee (Gullah) dialect, suggesting a connection with the Sea Islands. Blind Willie McTell indicated that Blake's real name was Arthur Phelps, but later research has shown this is unlikely to be correct. In 2011, a group of researchers led by Alex van der Tuuk published various documents regarding Blake's life and death in the journal Blues & Rhythm. One of these documents is his 1934 death certificate, which states he was born in 1896 in Newport News, Virginia, to Winter and Alice Blake (his mother's name is followed by a question mark). Nothing else is known of Blake until the 1920s, when he emerged as a recording musician. Career Blake recorded about 80 tracks for Paramount Records from 1926 to 1932. He was one of the most accomplished guitarists of his genre and played a diverse range of material. He is best known for his distinctive guitar playing, which was comparable in sound and style to ragtime piano. He may have lived in Jacksonville, going to Chicago for his recording sessions. According to van der Tuuk et al., he returned to Florida for the winter. In the 1930s he was reported to be playing in front of a Jacksonville hotel. Music Blake's first recordings were made in 1926, and his records sold well. His first solo record was "Early Morning Blues", with "West Coast Blues" on the B-side. Both are considered excellent examples of his ragtime-based guitar style and were prototypes for the burgeoning Piedmont blues. Blake made his last recordings in 1932; his career ended with Paramount's bankruptcy. Stefan Grossman and Gayle Dean Wardlow have suggested it is possible that only one side of Blake's last record is actually by him; Champagne Charlie Is My Name' does not sound like Blake's playing or singing." His complex and intricate fingerpicking inspired Reverend Gary Davis, Jorma Kaukonen, Ry Cooder, Arlen Roth, John Fahey, Ralph McTell, David Bromberg, Leon Redbone and many others. Big Bill Broonzy, hearing Blake in person in the early 1920s, said of his guitar playing "He made it sound like every instrument in the band- saxophone, trombone, clarinets, bass fiddles, pianos- everything. I never had seed then and I haven't to this day yet seed no one that could take his natural fingers and pick as much guitar as Blind Blake." The track "You Gonna Quit Me" from Bob Dylan's 1992 album Good as I Been to You is a cover of Blind Blake's "You Gonna Quit Me Blues." Personal life Blake married Beatrice McGee around 1931. In the following year he made his final recording at the Paramount headquarters, in Grafton, Wisconsin, just before the label went out of business. Death For decades nothing was known of him after this point, and it was rumored that he met with a violent death. Reverend Gary Davis heard he had been hit by a streetcar in 1934 and Big Bill Broonzy thought that he had frozen to death after falling over drunk during a Chicago blizzard and was too overweight to get back up. The research of van der Tuuk et al. suggests that Blake stayed in Wisconsin, living in Milwaukee's Brewer's Hill neighborhood, where Paramount boarded many of its artists. He seems not to have found work as a musician. In April 1933, he was hospitalized with pneumonia and never fully recovered. On December 1, 1934, after three weeks of decline, Beatrice Blake summoned an ambulance. He had a pulmonary hemorrhage and died on the way to the hospital. The cause of death was listed as pulmonary tuberculosis. He was buried in Glen Oaks Cemetery, in Glendale, Wisconsin in a previously unmarked grave. Compilations The Legendary Blind Blake (Ristic, 1958) Blues in Chicago (Riverside, 1964) Guitar and Vocal (Jazz Collector, 1968) Bootleg Rum Dum Blues 1926–1930 (Biograph, 1968) Search Warrant Blues 1926–32 (Biograph, 1970) No Dough Blues 1926–29 (Biograph, 1971) That Lovin' I Crave (Biograph, 1974) Ragtime Guitar's Foremost Fingerpicker (DLP, 1984) Blind Blake 1926–29 (Matchbox, 1986) The Accompanist (1926-1931) (Wolf, 1989) Complete Recorded Works, vols. 1–4 (Document, 1991) The Master of Ragtime Guitar, The Essential Recordings (Indigo, 1996) Georgie Bound (Catfish, 1999) The Best of Blind Blake (Yazoo, 2000) The Essential Blind Blake (Document, 2002) All the Published Sides (JSP, 2003) Blind Blake (Black Swan, 2004) The Best of Blind Blake (Collectables, 2006) Southern Rag (Snapper, 2008) The Complete Recordings (P-Vine, 2008) The Best of Blind Blake (P-Vine, 2008) No Dough Blues (Pristine, 2009) Back Biting Bee Blues (Monk, 2009) True Revolution (KRG, 2011) The Rough Guide to Blues Legends: Blind Blake (World Music Network, 2013) In literature Blake figures in the plot of Lee Child's first Jack Reacher novel, Killing Floor (1997), and there are references to him in Child's 2011 prequel, The Affair. Reference to Blake is made again in The Sentinel (2020), written by Lee Child and his brother Andrew Child, when Jack Reacher is on the lookout for venues in Nashville, 'where Blind Blake could have played'. Blake's original recording of "Diddy Wah Diddy" is referenced on the cover of Robert Crumb's Zap Comix #1. In television "Blind Blake" and his song "Police Dog Blues" appear in Reacher, Season 1, the TV series based on Lee Child's novel, Killing Floor. The main character Jack Reacher (a blues lover) arrives at the fictional town of Margrave, Georgia looking for some trace of Blake. References External links Illustrated Blind Blake discography 1896 births 1934 deaths 20th-century African-American male singers 20th-century American guitarists 20th-century deaths from tuberculosis Piedmont blues musicians Country blues musicians Chicago blues musicians American ragtime musicians Songster musicians Country blues singers American blues guitarists American male guitarists Tuberculosis deaths in Wisconsin Blind musicians Paramount Records artists Musicians from Jacksonville, Florida Guitarists from Florida Guitarists from Illinois African-American guitarists American blind people American musicians with disabilities
Bug or BUG may refer to: Common uses A terrestrial arthropod animal (with at least six legs) Insect, a six-legged arthropod Hemiptera, the true bugs Covert listening device, used in surveillance and espionage Bug (engineering), a defect in an engineered system Software bug Hardware bug BUG (tag), a computer programming comment tag Pathogen, colloquially Arts, entertainment and media Fictional entities Bug (comics), a superhero in Marvel comics Bug (Starship Troopers), an alien race from the novel and film Bug, Michael Lee's younger brother in The Wire Bug, in the TV series WordWorld Bobby "Bug" Guthrie, in the TV series Life Unexpected Film and television Bug (1975 film), an American horror film Bug (2002 film), an American comedy film Bug (2006 film), a psychological horror film adaptation of the Tracy Letts play Bug, a 2017 film starring Gene Jones "Bug" (Breaking Bad), a 2011 TV episode Gaming Bug (poker), a limited form of wild card Bug, a Pokémon type Bug!, a 1995 video game Bughouse chess, or bug, a chess variant played on two boards Music Albums Bug (Dave Davies album), 2002 Bug (Dinosaur Jr. album), 1988 Bug (soundtrack), of the 2006 film Songs "Bug", a song by Feeder from the 2001 album Echo Park "Bug", a song by Lower Than Atlantis from the 2011 album World Record "Bug", a song by Phish from the 2000 album Farmhouse "The Bug", a 1992 song by Dire Straits Other uses in arts, entertainment and media BUG (magazine), a Croatian magazine Bug (play), by Tracy Letts, 1993 Businesses and organizations Bicycle User Group, a group set up to promote cycling issues People Bug Hall (born 1985), an American actor Bug Holliday (1867–1910), an American baseball player Bug Howard (born 1994), an American football player Amy Bug, American physicist Enric Bug (born 1957), pseudonym Bug Rogers, a Spanish comic book artist and industrial designer The Bug (musician), a recording alias for British musician Kevin Martin Places Bug (river) or Western Bug, a river in Poland, Ukraine and Belarus Southern Bug, Southern Buh or Boh, a river in Ukraine Bug (Rügen), a spit and former village on the island of Rügen in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, Germany Bug, Kentucky, a settlement in Clinton County, Kentucky, in the United States Bag, Qasr-e Qand, also called Būg, a village in Sistan and Baluchestan Province, Iran Science and technology Slipper lobster (Scyllaridae), a number of species of which are called "bug" Bug, a digital on-screen graphic of a broadcaster's logo Bug, a Morse key design by Vibroplex Web beacon or web bug, a tracking object embedded in a web page or e-mail Transportation Bond Bug, a British three-wheeled car Dudly Bug, an early gas-powered cyclecar Sandlin Bug, an American ultralight glider design Volkswagen Beetle, an automobile nicknamed "Bug" Bug railway station, in Pakistan Bagaha railway station, Bihar, a railway station in India, station code BUG Burgess Hill railway station, a railway station in Sussex, England Other uses Buginese language, ISO 639 language code bug The Bug (horse) (1943–1963), an Irish-bred Thoroughbred racehorse See also Bugg (disambiguation) Bugged (disambiguation) Bugs (disambiguation) Annoyance, an unpleasant mental state Pathogen, an organism that causes disease Dudley Bug, an extinct trilobite Debugging, in computer programming and software development Union label or union bug, a label marking a product made by union workers
Browse, browser or browsing may refer to: Programs Web browser, a program used to access the World Wide Web Code browser, a program for navigating source code File browser or file manager, a program used to manage files and related objects Hardware browser, a program for displaying networked hardware devices Image browser or image viewer, a program that can display stored graphical images Browser service, a feature of Microsoft Windows to browse shared network resources Other Browsing, a kind of orienting strategy in animals and human beings Browsing (herbivory), a type of feeding behavior in herbivores Browse Island, Australia Browse LNG, Australian liquefied natural gas plant project Browser (cat), a Texan library cat
Bitter may refer to: Common uses Resentment, negative emotion or attitude, similar to being jaded, cynical or otherwise negatively affected by experience Bitter (taste), one of the five basic tastes Books Bitter (novel), a 2022 novel by Akwaeke Emezi. Food and drink Bitter (beer), a British term for pale ale Bitters, an herbal preparation now used mostly in cocktails Music Albums Bitter (Jupiter Apple album), 2007 Bitter (Meshell Ndegeocello album), 1999 Songs "Bitter" (Fletcher song) (2020) "Bitter", by Lit from Tripping the Light Fantastic, 1997 "Bitter", by Reks from More Grey Hairs "Bitter", by Remy Zero from The Golden Hum "Bitter", by Freya Ridings from Blood Orange, 2023 "Bitter", by Shihad "Bitter", by Jill Sobule from Happy Town, 1997 "Bitter", by The Vamps from Cherry Blossom Other uses Bitter (surname) (including a list of persons with the name) Bitter Cars, a German car company See also Bitter end (disambiguation) Bitterlich (disambiguation) Bittern (disambiguation) The Bitter End (disambiguation)
Bubble and squeak is a British dish made from cooked potatoes and cabbage, mixed together and fried. The food writer Howard Hillman classes it as one of the "great peasant dishes of the world". The dish has been known since at least the 18th century, and in its early versions it contained cooked beef; by the mid-20th century the two vegetables had become the principal ingredients. History The name of the dish, according to the Oxford English Dictionary (OED), alludes to the sounds made by the ingredients when being fried. The first recorded use of the name listed in the OED dates from 1762; The St James's Chronicle, recording the dishes served at a banquet, included "Bubble and Squeak, garnish'd with Eddowes Cow Bumbo, and Tongue". A correspondent in The Public Advertiser two years later reported making "a very hearty Meal on fryed Beef and Cabbage; though I could not have touched it had my Wife recommended it to me under the fashionable Appellation of Bubble and Squeak". In 1791 another London paper recorded the quarterly meeting of the Bubble and Squeak Society at Smithfield. The dish as it is made in modern times differs considerably from its first recorded versions, in which cooked beef was the main ingredient and potatoes did not feature. The earliest-known recipe is in Maria Rundell's A New System of Domestic Cookery, published in 1806. It consists wholly of cabbage and rare roast beef, seasoned and fried. This method is followed by William Kitchiner in his book Apicius Redivivus, or The Cook's Oracle (1817); in later editions he adds a couplet at the top of his recipe: When 'midst the frying Pan in accents savage, The Beef, so surly, quarrels with the Cabbage. Mrs Beeton's recipe in her Book of Household Management (1861) similarly combines cooked beef with cabbage (and, in her recipe, onions) but no potato. An 1848 recipe from the US is similar, but adds chopped carrots. In all of these, the meat and vegetables are served next to each other, and not mixed together. In 1872 a Lancashire newspaper offered a recipe for "delicious bubble and squeak", consisting of thinly-sliced beef fried with cabbage and carrot, but not potatoes, although by then they had been a major crop in Lancashire for decades. In the 1880s potatoes began to appear in recipes. In 1882 the "Household" column of The Manchester Times suggested: Potatoes featured in a recipe printed in a Yorkshire paper in 1892 but, as in earlier versions, the main ingredients were beef and cabbage. Modern versions Possibly because of the scarcity of beef during food rationing in and after the Second World War, by the latter half of the 20th century the basic ingredients were widely considered to be cooked and mashed (or coarsely crushed) potato and chopped cooked cabbage. Those are the only two ingredients in Delia Smith's 1987 recipe. Clarissa Dickson Wright's 1996 version consists of crushed cooked potatoes, finely chopped raw onion, and cooked cabbage (or brussels sprouts), seasoned with salt and pepper, mixed together and shallow-fried until browned on the exterior. Like Smith, Dickson Wright specifies dripping (or lard) for frying, finding vegetable oil unsuitable for frying bubble and squeak, because the mixture will not brown adequately. Several other cooks find oil or butter satisfactory. Fiona Beckett (2008), like Smith and Dickson Wright, stipulates no ingredients other than potato and cabbage, but there are many published variants of the basic recipe. Gary Rhodes favours sliced brussels sprouts, rather than cabbage, with gently cooked sliced onions and mashed potato, fried in butter. He comments that although the basic ingredients of bubble and squeak and colcannon are similar, the two are very different dishes, the former being traditionally made from left-overs and fried to give a brown crust, and the latter "a completely separate dish of potato, spring onion and cabbage, served almost as creamed potatoes". Jeff Smith (1987) adds grated courgettes and chopped ham and bacon. Mark Hix (2005) adds cooked and chopped leeks and swede to the mix. Jamie Oliver (2007) adds chestnuts and "whatever veg you like – carrots, Brussels, swedes, turnips, onions, leeks or Savoy cabbage". Nigel Slater, in a 2013 recipe using Christmas leftovers, adds chopped goose, ham and pumpkin to the mixture. The mixture is then shallow fried, either shaped into round cakes or as a single panful and then sliced. The first method is suggested by Delia Smith, Hix and Slater; Rhodes finds both methods satisfactory; Dickson Wright, Oliver and Jeff Smith favour the whole-pan method. Outside Britain Bubble and squeak is familiar in Australia; a 1969 recipe adds peas and pumpkin to the basic mix. The dish is not common in the US but is not unknown; an American recipe from 1913 resembles Rundell's version, with the addition of a border of mashed potato. In 1983 the American food writer Howard Hillman included bubble and squeak in his survey Great Peasant Dishes of the World. More recently Forbes magazine ran an article about the dish in 2004. A Canadian newspaper in 1959 reported a minor controversy about the origins of the dish, with readers variously claiming it as Australian, English, Irish and Scottish. In 1995, another Canadian paper called the dish "universally beloved". Similar dishes Panackelty, from North East England Rumbledethumps, stovies and clapshot from Scotland Colcannon and champ, from Ireland Stoemp from Belgium Calentao, from Colombia Biksemad, from Denmark Bauernfrühstück and Stemmelkort, from Germany Aloo tikki, from India Stamppot, from the Netherlands Trinxat, from the La Cerdanya region of Catalonia, northeast Spain and Andorra Matevž, from Slovenia Pyttipanna, Pyttipanne and Pyttipannu from Sweden, Norway and Finland Hash, from the United States Other uses of term The OED gives a secondary definition of "bubble and squeak": "figurative and in figurative contexts. Something resembling or suggestive of bubble and squeak, especially in consisting of a variety of elements". In 1825 a reviewer in The Morning Post dismissed a new opera at Covent Garden as "a sort of bubble and squeak mixture of English and Italian". The OED gives examples from the 18th to the 21st centuries, including, from Coleridge, "... the restless Bubble and Squeak of his Vanity and Discontent", and from D. H. Lawrence, "I can make the most lovely bubble and squeak of a life for myself". In cockney rhyming slang the phrase was formerly used for "beak" (magistrate) and more recently "Bubble" has been used for "Greek". The term has been borrowed by authors of children's books as names for a pair of puppies and (by two different authors) pairs of mice. References and sources References Sources English cuisine Potato dishes Cabbage dishes Brassica oleracea dishes Food combinations Breakfast dishes Dishes based on leftover ingredients Peasant food
Benz, an old Germanic clan name dating to the fifth century (related to "bear", "war banner", "gau", or a "land by a waterway") also used in German () as an alternative for names such as Berthold, Bernhard, or Benedict, may refer to: People Surname Amy Benz (born 1962), American golfer Bertha Benz (1849–1944), German marketing entrepreneur who was the first to drive an automobile for a long distance, wife of Carl Benz Carl Benz (1844–1929), German engineer, inventor, and entrepreneur who built the first patented automobile Derek Benz (born 1971), American author of fantasy fiction for children Edward J. Benz, Jr., professor of genetics Joe Benz (1886–1957), American Major League Baseball pitcher Joseph Benz (born 1944), Swiss former bobsledder, Olympic and world champion Julie Benz (born 1972), American actress Kafi Benz (born 1941), American author, artist, and environmental and historic preservationist Larry Benz (born 1941), American former National Football League player Laura Benz (born 1992), Swiss ice hockey player Maria Benz (1906–1946), birth name of Nusch Éluard, German-born model who married Paul Éluard Mathilde Benz (1901–1977), birth name of Lee Parry, German actress Paul Benz (born 1986), Australian Paralympic athlete Richard Benz (1884–1966), German historian and writer Roland Benz (born 1943), German biophysicist Sara Benz (born 1992), Swiss ice hockey player Walter Benz (1931–2017), German mathematician known for his work on geometric planes Wolfgang Benz (born 1941), German historian Ring or stage name Nicky Benz (born 1980), ring name of Nick Berk, American wrestler Nikki Benz (born 1981), stage name of Alla Montchak, Canadian pornographic actress and director Spragga Benz (born 1969), stage name of Carlton Grant, Jamaican deejay and musician Places Benz (Usedom), Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Germany, a municipality Benz, Nordwestmecklenburg, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Germany, a municipality Benice, West Pomeranian Voivodeship (Benz in German), Poland, a village Benz Pass, Trinity Peninsula, Antarctica Mathematics and science Benz (unit), a proposed unit of velocity Benz, an abbreviated form of Benzo, a functional group in chemistry Benz plane, in geometry Other uses Benz & Cie., a manufacturer of steam engines co-founded by Carl Benz in 1883 Benz (group), a British band Benz series, a series of paintings and drawings created by Lyonel Feininger See also Benzz, the "Calabria" sampling West London drill rapper known for "Je M'appelle" Bendz, a surname Bentz, a surname
Bobby or Bob Diamond may refer to: Bob Diamond (actor) (1943–2019), American actor and lawyer a/k/a Bobby Diamond and Robert Diamond Bob Diamond (banker) (born 1951), Anglo-American business executive Characters Bob Diamond (comics), Marvel Comics character since 1974 Bob Diamond, played by Rip Torn in 1991 American film Defending Your Life See also Bobby Dimond (1930–2020), Australian rugby league footballer
The Brooklyn Historic Railway Association (BHRA) is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization with a shop, trolley barn and offices located in Red Hook, Brooklyn, New York, on the historic Beard Street Piers (c. 1870). BHRA had a fleet of 16 trolleys (15 PCC trolleys and a leased 1897 trolley car from the Oslo Trams, in Oslo, Norway). History of project The BHRA's origin began with the rediscovery of the Cobble Hill Tunnel by the late Bob Diamond in 1980. BHRA was formed in 1982 to restore the historic tunnel. The Atlantic Avenue Tunnel (constructed in 1844) is the world's oldest subway tunnel. BHRA successfully filed and received designation for the tunnel on the National Register of Historic Places. The BHRA received funding and permission from the city to construct a light rail route in Red Hook. However, the project was hampered due to the New York City Department of Transportation (DOT) withdrawing its support from the project. The DOT identified several potential improvements which did not include a streetcar however, that would improve access and mobility for neighborhood residents. Construction was stopped on a 7-block extension to the line due to the removal and scrapping of rails, ties, and other items of railroad equipment by the DOT, which were stored on land that was slated for the Fairway supermarket project. On June 30, 2003, BHRA was ordered to remove and fill in all trolley tracks on public streets by the DOT. The DOT revoked consent for the project to proceed or exist on city streets. Shortly thereafter, BHRA completely ceased operation. All the PCC trolleys except for No. 3303 were removed from Brooklyn. The BHRA ran organized tours of the Cobble Hill Tunnel from time to time, but all tours are currently suspended. Bob Diamond died on 21 August 2021, with his death confirmed by articles in the NY Times, NY Dailey News and The Brooklyn Eagle newspapers. See also Cobble Hill Tunnel Brooklyn–Queens Connector References External links Forgotten New York Streetcar lines in Brooklyn
A beta-lactam (β-lactam) ring is a four-membered lactam. A lactam is a cyclic amide, and beta-lactams are named so because the nitrogen atom is attached to the β-carbon atom relative to the carbonyl. The simplest β-lactam possible is 2-azetidinone. β-lactams are significant structural units of medicines as manifested in many β-lactam antibiotics Up to 1970, most β-lactam research was concerned with the penicillin and cephalosporin groups, but since then, a wide variety of structures have been described. Clinical significance The β-lactam ring is part of the core structure of several antibiotic families, the principal ones being the penicillins, cephalosporins, carbapenems, and monobactams, which are, therefore, also called β-lactam antibiotics. Nearly all of these antibiotics work by inhibiting bacterial cell wall biosynthesis. This has a lethal effect on bacteria, although any given bacteria population will typically contain a subgroup that is resistant to β-lactam antibiotics. Bacterial resistance occurs as a result of the expression of one of many genes for the production of β-lactamases, a class of enzymes that break open the β-lactam ring. More than 1,800 different β-lactamase enzymes have been documented in various species of bacteria. These enzymes vary widely in their chemical structure and catalytic efficiencies. When bacterial populations have these resistant subgroups, treatment with β-lactam can result in the resistant strain becoming more prevalent and therefore more virulent. β-lactam derived antibiotics can be considered one of the most important antibiotic classes but prone to clinical resistance. β-lactam exhibits its antibiotic properties by imitating the naturally occurring d-Ala-d-Ala substrate for the group of enzymes known as penicillin binding proteins (PBP), which have as function to cross-link the peptidoglycan part of the cell wall of the bacteria. The β-lactam ring is also found in some other drugs such as the cholesterol absorption inhibitor drug Ezetimibe. Synthesis The first synthetic β-lactam was prepared by Hermann Staudinger in 1907 by reaction of the Schiff base of aniline and benzaldehyde with diphenylketene in a [2+2] cycloaddition (Ph indicates a phenyl functional group): Many methods have been developed for the synthesis of β-lactams. The Breckpot β-lactam synthesis produces substituted β-lactams by the cyclization of beta amino acid esters by use of a Grignard reagent. Mukaiyama's reagent is also used in modified Breckpot synthesis. Reactions Due to ring strain, β-lactams are more readily hydrolyzed than linear amides or larger lactams. This strain is further increased by fusion to a second ring, as found in most β-lactam antibiotics. This trend is due to the amide character of the β-lactam being reduced by the aplanarity of the system. The nitrogen atom of an ideal amide is sp2-hybridized due to resonance, and sp2-hybridized atoms have trigonal planar bond geometry. As a pyramidal bond geometry is forced upon the nitrogen atom by the ring strain, the resonance of the amide bond is reduced, and the carbonyl becomes more ketone-like. Nobel laureate Robert Burns Woodward described a parameter h as a measure of the height of the trigonal pyramid defined by the nitrogen (as the apex) and its three adjacent atoms. h corresponds to the strength of the β-lactam bond with lower numbers (more planar; more like ideal amides) being stronger and less reactive. Monobactams have h values between 0.05 and 0.10 angstroms (Å). Cephems have h values in of 0.20–0.25 Å. Penams have values in the range 0.40–0.50 Å, while carbapenems and clavams have values of 0.50–0.60 Å, being the most reactive of the β-lactams toward hydrolysis. See also Azetidine Lactone Lectka enantioselective beta-lactam synthesis References External links Synthesis of β-lactams Beta-lactams Four-membered rings
The Prince-Bishopric of Brandenburg () was an ecclesiastical principality of the Holy Roman Empire from the 12th century until it was secularized during the second half of the 16th century. It should not be confused with the larger Diocese of Brandenburg () established by King Otto I of Germany in 948, in the territory of the Marca Geronis (Saxon Eastern March) east of the Elbe river. The diocese, over which the prince-bishop exercised only spiritual authority, was a suffragan diocese of the Archdiocese of Magdeburg, its seat was Brandenburg an der Havel. The Prince-Bishopric of Brandenburg was an imperial estate of the Holy Roman Empire for some time, probably starting about 1161/1165. However, the Brandenburg bishops never managed to gain control over a significant territory, being overshadowed by the Margraviate of Brandenburg, which was originally seated in the same city. Chapter and cathedral, surrounded by further ecclesiastical institutions, were located on the Dominsel (Cathedral Island), which formed a prince-episcopal cathedral immunity district (Domfreiheit), distinct from the city of Brandenburg. Only in 1929 the - meanwhile former - immunity district was incorporated into the city itself. History The foundation charter of the Brandenburg diocese is dated 1 October 948, though the actual founding date remained disputed among historians. The medieval chronicler Thietmar of Merseburg mentions the year 938; the bishopric may also have been established in the course of the partition of the vast Marca Geronis and the emergence of the Northern March after Margrave Gero's death in 965. With the foundation, King Otto (Holy Roman Emperor from 962) aimed at the Christianization of the Polabian Slavs (Wends) and the incorporation of their territory into the East Frankish realm. Brandenburg was originally a suffragan of the Archbishopric of Mainz, but in 968 it came under the jurisdiction of the Magdeburg archbishops. The Great Slav Rising of 983 practically annihilated it, when revolting Lutici tribes conquered Brandenburg and the neighbouring Bishopric of Havelberg. Brandenburg bishops continued to be appointed, but they were merely titular, residing in Magdeburg or acting as auxiliary bishops in the western territories of the Empire. Not until the final subjugation of the Wends in the 12th century by Margrave Albert the Bear, the German eastward settlement (Ostsiedlung) in the diocesan region revived the bishopric. Bishop Wigers of Brandenburg (acting 1138–60), an adherent of Norbert of Xanten, was the first of a series of bishops of the Premonstratensian Order, which chose the occupants of the episcopal see until 1447; in that year a bull of Pope Nicholas V gave the right of nomination to the Brandenburg elector, with whom the bishops stood in a close feudal relation. Bishop Wigers also established a Premonstratensian convent at Leitzkau (today part of Gommern, Saxony-Anhalt). Probably at the request of the Hevellian prince Pribislav-Henry, he established another convent at the Slavic Parduin settlement in present-day Brandenburg an der Havel, which became the nucleus of the revived Brandenburg cathedral chapter. The incorporation into the Premonstratensian Order was confirmed by Pope Clement III in 1188. As rulers of imperial immediacy, regnant in a, however, dispersed territory partitioned into the four bailiwicks () of Brandenburg/Havel, Ketzin, Teltow and Ziesar. The prince-bishops from the early 14th century onwards resided in their fortress in Ziesar on the road to Magdeburg. The last actual bishop was Matthias von Jagow (d. 1544), who took the side of the Protestant Reformation, married, and in every way furthered the undertakings of the Hohenzollern elector Joachim II. There were two more nominal bishops, but on the petition of the latter of these, the electoral prince John George of Brandenburg appointed in 1560, the secularisation of the bishopric was undertaken and finally accomplished in 1571, in spite of legal proceedings to reassert the imperial immediacy of the prince-bishopric within the Empire and so to likewise preserve the diocese, which dragged on into the 17th century. Bishops of Brandenburg 949–968: Dietmar 968–980: Dodilo 980–1004: Volkmar 992–1018: Wigo 1022–1032: Luizo 1032-1048: Rudolf 1048–1051: Dankwart 1068–1080: Dietrich I 1080–1092: Volkmar II 1100–1122: Hartbert 1124–1137: Ludolf 1137–1138: Landbert Prince-bishops 1138–1160: Wiggar 1160–1173: Wilman 1173–1179: Sigfried I 1179–1190: Baldran 1190–1192: Alexius 1192–1205: Norbert 1205–1216: Baldwin 1216–1220: Siegfried II 1221–1222: Ludolf von Schanebeck, claimant, but not enthroned 1221–1222: Wichmann von Arnstein, counter-claimant, also not enthroned 1222–1241: Gernot 1241–1251: Rutger von Ammendorf 1251–1261: Otto von Mehringen 1261–1278: Heinrich I von Osthenen (or Ostheeren) 1278–1287: Gebhard 1287–1290: Heidenreich 1290–1291: Richard, refused the appointment 1291–1296: Dietrich, not enthroned 1296–1302: Vollrad von Krempa 1303–1316: Friedrich von Plötzkau 1316–1324: Johann I von Tuchen 1324–1327: Heinrich II Count of Barby, not enthroned 1327–1347: Ludwig Schenk von Reindorf (or Neuendorf) 1347–1365: Dietrich II Kothe 1366–1393: Dietrich III von der Schulenburg 1393–1406: Heinrich III von Bodendiek (or Bodendieck) 1406–1414: Henning von Bredow 1414: Friedrich von Grafeneck, Prince-Bishop of Augsburg 1413–1414 1415–1420: Johann von Waldow, Bishop of Lebus 1420–1423 1420: Friedrich von Grafeneck, again 1421–1459: Stephan Bodecker 1459–1472: Dietrich IV von Stechow 1472–1485: Arnold von Burgsdorff 1485–1507: Joachim I von Bredow 1507–1520: Hieronymus Schulz (or Scultetus), Bishop of Havelberg 1521–1522 1520–1526: Dietrich V von Hardenberg Lutheran bishops 1526–1544: Matthias von Jagow 1544–1546: Sede vacante 1546–1560: Joachim of Münsterberg-Oels 1560–1569/71: John George of Brandenburg, regent (Verweser) 1569/71: Joachim Frederick of Brandenburg Secularized and merged into Brandenburg. See also List of Former Roman Catholic dioceses of Germany References Brandenburg Diocese Brandenburg Bishopric Brandenburg Brandenburg Diocese Brandenburg Former states and territories of Brandenburg Brandenburg an der Havel 10th-century establishments in Germany
Robert M. Frankston (born June 14, 1949) is an American software engineer and businessman who co-created, with Dan Bricklin, the VisiCalc spreadsheet program. Frankston is also the co-founder of Software Arts. Early life and education Frankston was born and raised in Brooklyn, New York. He graduated from Stuyvesant High School in New York City in 1966. He earned a S.B degree in computer science and mathematics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, followed by a Master of Engineering degree in computer science, also from MIT. Career Following his work with Dan Bricklin, Frankston later worked at Lotus Development Corporation and Microsoft. Frankston became an outspoken advocate for reducing the role of telecommunications companies in the evolution of the Internet, particularly with respect to broadband and mobile communications. He coined the term "Regulatorium" to describe what he considers collusion between telecommunication companies and their regulators that prevents change. Awards and recognition Fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery (1994) "for the invention of VisiCalc, a new metaphor for data manipulation that galvanized the personal computing industry" MIT William L. Stewart Award for co-founding the M.I.T. Student Information Processing Board (SIPB). The Association for Computing Machinery Software System Award (1985) The MIT LCS Industrial Achievement Award The Washington Award (2001) from the Western Society of Engineers (with Bricklin) In 2004, he was made a Fellow of the Computer History Museum "for advancing the utility of personal computers by developing the VisiCalc electronic spreadsheet." References External links Bob Frankston's site/blog Biographical article from Smart Computing Stuyvesant High School alumni 1949 births Living people Businesspeople from Brooklyn Fellows of the Association for Computing Machinery People from Arlington, Massachusetts
The book of Obadiah is a book of the Bible whose authorship is attributed to Obadiah, a prophet who lived in the Assyrian Period. Obadiah is one of the Twelve Minor Prophets in the final section of Nevi'im, the second main division of the Hebrew Bible. The text consists of a single chapter, divided into 21 verses, making it the shortest book in the Hebrew Bible. The book concerns the divine judgment of Edom and the restoration of Israel. Content The Book of Obadiah is based on a prophetic vision concerning the fall of Edom, a mountain-dwelling nation whose founding father was Esau. Obadiah describes an encounter with Yahweh, who addresses Edom's arrogance and charges them for their "violence against your brother Jacob". Throughout most of the history of Judah, Edom was controlled absolutely from Jerusalem as a vassal state. Obadiah said that the high elevation of their dwelling place in the mountains of Seir had gone to their head, and they had puffed themselves up in pride. "'Though you soar like the eagle and make your nest among the stars, from there I will bring you down,' declares the ". In the Siege of Jerusalem (597 BC), Nebuchadnezzar II sacked Jerusalem, carted away the King of Judah, and installed a puppet ruler. The Edomites helped the Babylonians loot the city. Obadiah, writing this prophecy around 590 BCE, suggests the Edomites should have remembered that blood was thicker than water. "On the day you stood aloof while strangers carried off his wealth and foreigners entered his gates and cast lots for Jerusalem, you were like one of them... You should not march through the gates of my people in the day of their disaster, nor gloat over them in their calamity in the day of their disaster, nor seize their wealth in the day of their disaster." Obadiah said in judgment Yahweh would wipe out the house of Esau forever, and not even a remnant would remain. The Edomites' land would be possessed by Egypt and they would cease to exist as a people. The Day of the Lord was at hand for all nations, and someday the children of Israel would return from their exile and possess the land of Edom. Scholarly issues Dating Obadiah The date of composition is disputed and is difficult to determine due to the lack of personal information about Obadiah, his family, and his historical milieu. The date of composition must therefore be determined based on the prophecy itself. Edom is to be destroyed due to its lack of defense for its brother nation, Israel, when it was under attack. There are two major historical contexts within which the Edomites could have committed such an act. These are during 853–841 BCE when Jerusalem was invaded by Philistines and Arabs during the reign of Jehoram of Judah (recorded in 2 Kings and 2 Chronicles in the Christian Old Testament) and 607–586 BCE when Jerusalem was attacked by Nebuchadnezzar II of Babylon, which led to the Babylonian exile of Israel (recorded in Psalm 137). The earlier period would place Obadiah as a contemporary of the prophet Elijah. The later date would place Obadiah as a contemporary of the prophet Jeremiah. A sixth-century date for Obadiah is a "near consensus" position among scholars. contains parallels to the Book of Jeremiah . The passage in the Book of Jeremiah dates from the fourth year of the reign of Jehoiakim (604 BCE), and therefore seems to refer to the destruction of Jerusalem by Nebuchadnezzar II (586 BCE). It is more likely that Obadiah and the Book of Jeremiah together were drawing on a common source presently unknown to us rather than Jeremiah drawing on previous writings of Obadiah as his source. There is also much material found in which Jeremiah does not quote, and which, had he had it laid out before him, would have suited his purpose admirably. Sepharad The term "Sepharad" mentioned in the 20th verse of Obadiah comes from the Hebrew word for Spain. Scriptural parallels The exact expression "the Day of the Lord", from , has been used by other authors throughout the Old and New Testaments, as follows: Old Testament Isaiah 2, 13, 34, 58, Jeremiah , Lamentations , Ezekiel , Joel 1, 2, 3, Amos , , Zephaniah 1, 2, Zechariah , Malachi 4:5 New Testament 1 Thessalonians 5:2, , Acts 2:20, , For other parallels, compare with . See also The fields of Ephraim The land of Gilead The lowland of Philistia The fields of Samaria Teman References External links Masoretic text from Mechon Mamre Translations: Jewish translations: Ovadiah (Judaica Press) translation [with Rashi's commentary] from Chabad.org Christian translations: Online Bible at GospelHall.org (KJV ESV Darby BBE) Obadiah at The Great Books (New Revised Standard Version) Commentary: Ovadiah (Judaica Press) translation [with Rashi's commentary] from Chabad.org Obadiah, from John Gill's Exposition of the Entire Bible. Obadiah, from the United Church of God, an International Association Bible Reading Program – This Hebrew scholar provides extensive background information as well as verse-by-verse exposition] Kretzmann's Popular Commentary of the Bible (navigate to Obadiah using the menu on the left) Obadiah: The Lord Will Have His Day by Jonathan Kuske Obadiah: an Introduction by Jim West 9th-century BC books 6th-century BC books 1st-millennium BC books Twelve Minor Prophets
The Book of Nahum is the seventh book of the 12 minor prophets of the Hebrew Bible. It is attributed to the prophet Nahum, and was probably written in Jerusalem in the 7th century BC. Background Josephus places Nahum during the reign of Jotham, while others place him in the beginning of the reign of Ahaz, Judah's next king, or even the latter half of the reign of Hezekiah, Ahaz's son; all three accounts date the book to the 8th century BC. The book would then have been written in Jerusalem, where Nahum would have witnessed the invasion of Sennacherib and his retreat. The scholarly consensus is that the "book of vision" was written at the time of the fall of Nineveh at the hands of the Medes and Babylonians in 612 BC. This theory is demonstrated by the fact that the oracles must be dated after the Assyrian destruction of Thebes, Egypt in 663 BC, as this event is mentioned in Nahum 3:8. Author Little is known about Nahum's personal history. His name means "comforter", and he was from the town of Elkosh or Alqosh (Nahum 1:1), which scholars have attempted to identify with several cities, including the modern `Alqush of Assyria and Capernaum of northern Galilee. He was a very nationalistic Hebrew, and lived among the Elkoshites in peace. His writings were likely written in about 615 BC, before the downfall of Assyria. Historical context The subject of Nahum's prophecy is the approaching complete and final destruction of Nineveh which was the capital of the great and flourishing Assyrian empire, at that time. Ashurbanipal was at the height of his glory. Nineveh was a city of vast extent, and was then the center of the civilization and commerce of the world, according to Nahum a "bloody city all full of lies and robbery", a reference to the Neo-Assyrian Empire's military campaigns and demand of tribute and plunder from conquered cities. Jonah had already uttered his message of warning, and Nahum was followed by Zephaniah, who also predicted the destruction of the city. Nineveh was destroyed apparently by fire around 625 BC, and the Assyrian empire came to an end, an event which changed the face of Asia. Archaeological digs have uncovered the splendor of Nineveh in its zenith under Sennacherib (705–681 BC), Esarhaddon (681–669 BC), and Ashurbanipal (669–633 BC). Massive walls were eight miles in circumference. It had a water aqueduct, palaces and a library with 20,000 clay tablets, including accounts of a creation in Enuma Elish and a flood in the Epic of Gilgamesh. The Babylonian chronicle of the fall of Nineveh tells the story of the end of Nineveh. Nabopolassar of Babylon joined forces with Cyaxares, king of the Medes, and laid siege for three months. Assyria lasted a few more years after the loss of its fortress, but attempts by Egyptian Pharaoh Necho II to rally the Assyrians failed due to opposition from king Josiah of Judah, and it seemed to be all over by 609 BC. Overview The Book of Nahum consists of two parts: a prelude in chapter one, followed by chapters two and three which describe the fall of Nineveh, which later took place in 612 BC. Nineveh is compared to Thebes, the Egyptian city that Assyria itself had destroyed in 663 BC. Nahum describes the siege and frenzied activity of Nineveh's troops as they try in vain to halt the invaders. Poetically, he becomes a participant in the battle, and with subtle irony, barks battle commands to the defenders. Nahum uses numerous similes and metaphor that Nineveh will become weak "like the lion hiding in its den". It concludes with a taunt song and funeral dirge of the impending destruction of Nineveh and the "sleep" or death of the Assyrian people and demise of the once great Assyrian conqueror-rulers. Surviving early manuscripts The original text was written in Biblical Hebrew. Some early manuscripts containing the text of this chapter in Hebrew are the Masoretic Text, which includes the Codex Cairensis (895), Aleppo Codex (10th century), and Codex Leningradensis (1008). Fragments of this book were found among the Dead Sea Scrolls including 4QpNah, known as the "Nahum Commentary" (1st century BC); 4Q82 (4QXIIg; 1st century BC). and Wadi Murabba'at MurXII (1st century AD). There is also a translation into Koine Greek known as the Septuagint, made in the last few centuries BC, with extant manuscripts including Codex Vaticanus (B; B; 4th century), Codex Sinaiticus (S; BHK: S; 4th century), Codex Alexandrinus (A; A; 5th century) and Codex Marchalianus (Q; Q; 6th century). Some fragments containing parts of this chapter (a revision of the Septuagint) were found among the Dead Sea Scrolls, i.e., Naḥal Ḥever (8ḤevXIIgr; 1st century AD). Themes The fall of Nineveh Nahum's prophecy carries a particular warning to the Ninevites of coming events, although he is partly in favor of the destruction. One might even say that the book of Nahum is "a celebration of the fall of Assyria." And this is not just a warning or speaking positively of the destruction of Nineveh, it is also a positive encouragement and "message of comfort for Israel, Judah, and others who had experienced the "endless cruelty" of the Assyrians." The prophet Jonah shows us where God shows concern for the people of Nineveh, while Nahum's writing testifies to his belief in the righteousness/justice of God and how God dealt with those Assyrians in punishment according to "their cruelty". The Assyrians had been used as God's "rod of […] anger, and the staff in their hand [as] indignation." The nature of God From its opening, Nahum shows God to be slow to anger, but that God will by no means ignore the guilty; God will bring his vengeance and wrath to pass. God is presented as a God who will punish evil, but will protect those who trust in Him. The opening passage states: "God is jealous, and the LORD revengeth; the LORD revengeth, and is furious; the LORD will take vengeance on his adversaries, and he reserveth wrath for his enemies. The LORD is slow to anger, and great in power, and will not at all acquit the wicked". "The LORD is slow to anger and Quick to love; the LORD will not leave the guilty unpunished." "The LORD is good, a refuge in times of trouble. He cares for those who trust in him" Importance God's judgement on Nineveh is "all because of the wanton lust of a harlot, alluring, the mistress of sorceries, who enslaved nations by her prostitution and peoples by her witchcraft." Infidelity, according to the prophets, related to spiritual unfaithfulness. For example: "the land is guilty of the vilest adultery in departing from the LORD." John of Patmos used a similar analogy in Revelation chapter 17. The prophecy of Nahum was referenced in the deuterocanonical Book of Tobit. In Tobit 14:4 (NRSV) a dying Tobit says to his son Tobias and Tobias' sons: [My son] hurry off to Media, for I believe the word of God that Nahum spoke about Nineveh, that all these things will take place and overtake Assyria and Nineveh. Indeed, everything that was spoken by the prophets of Israel, whom God sent, will occur. However, some versions, such as the King James Version, refer to the prophet Jonah instead. See also References Sources External links Unique Pictures Of Nahum Tomb By Kobi Arami Jewish translations: Nachum – Nahum (Judaica Press) translation [with Rashi's commentary] at Chabad.org Christian translations: Online Bible at GospelHall.org (ESV, KJV, Darby, American Standard Version, Bible in Basic English) BibleGateway Nahum – King James Version Various versions Commentary This article also contains a section on the Book of Nahum. 7th-century BC books Twelve Minor Prophets
The Book of Haggai (; ) is a book of the Hebrew Bible or Tanakh, and is the third-to-last of the Twelve Minor Prophets. It is a short book, consisting of only two chapters. The historical setting dates around 520 BC before the Temple had been rebuilt. The original text was written in Biblical Hebrew. Authorship The Book of Haggai is named after the prophet Haggai whose prophecies are recorded in the book. The authorship of the book is uncertain. Some presume that Haggai wrote the book himself but he is repeatedly referred to in the third person which makes it unlikely that he wrote the text: it is more probable that the book was written by a disciple of Haggai who sought to preserve the content of Haggai's spoken prophecies. There is no biographical information given about the prophet in the Book of Haggai. Haggai's name is derived from the Hebrew verbal root hgg, which means "to make a pilgrimage." W. Sibley Towner suggests that Haggai's name might come "from his single-minded effort to bring about the reconstruction of that destination of ancient Judean pilgrims, the Temple in Jerusalem." Date The Book of Haggai records events in 520 BC, some 18 years after Cyrus had conquered Babylon and issued a decree in 538 BC, allowing the captive Judahites to return to Judea. Cyrus saw the restoration of the temple as necessary for the restoration of religious practices and a sense of peoplehood, after the long exile. The precise date of the written text is uncertain but most likely dates to within a generation of Haggai himself. Traditional consensus dates the completion of the text to c. 515 BC. Other scholars consider the book to be completed around 417 BC, as it did not refer to Darius I, but to Darius II (424-405 BC). Early surviving manuscripts Some early manuscripts containing the text of this book in Biblical Hebrew are of the Masoretic Text, which includes the Codex Cairensis (895), the Petersburg Codex of the Prophets (916), and Codex Leningradensis (1008). Fragments of the Hebrew text of this book were found among the Dead Sea Scrolls, including 4Q77 (4QXIIb; 150–125 BCE) 4Q80 (4QXIIe; 75–50 BCE); and Wadi Murabba'at Minor Prophets (Mur88; MurXIIProph; 75-100 CE). There is also a translation into Koine Greek known as the Septuagint, made in the last few centuries BCE. Extant ancient manuscripts of the Septuagint version include Codex Vaticanus (B; B; 4th century), Codex Sinaiticus (S; BHK: S; 4th century), Codex Alexandrinus (A; A; 5th century) and Codex Marchalianus (Q; Q; 6th century). Synopsis Haggai's message is filled with an urgency for the people to proceed with the rebuilding of the second Jerusalem temple. Haggai attributes a recent drought to the people's refusal to rebuild the temple, which he sees as key to Jerusalem’s glory. The book ends with the prediction of the downfall of kingdoms, with one Zerubbabel, governor of Judah, as the Lord's chosen leader. The language here is not as finely wrought as in some other books of the minor prophets, yet the intent seems straightforward. The first chapter contains the first address (2–11) and its effects (12–15). The second chapter contains: The second prophecy (1–9), which was delivered a month after the first The third prophecy (10–19), delivered two months and three days after the second; and The fourth prophecy (20–23), delivered on the same day as the third These discourses are referred to in Ezra 5:1 and 6:14. (Compare Haggai 2:7, 8 and 22) Haggai reports that three weeks after his first prophecy the rebuilding of the Temple began on September 7 521 BC. "They came and began to work on the house of the LORD Almighty, their God, on the twenty-fourth day of the sixth month in the second year of Darius the King." (Haggai 1:14–15) and the Book of Ezra indicates that it was finished on February 25 516 BC "The Temple was completed on the third day of the month Adar, in the sixth year of the reign of King Darius." (Ezra 6:15) Outline Divine Announcement: The Command to Rebuild the Temple ( ) Introduction: Reluctant Rebuilders ( ) Consider your ways: fruitless prosperity ( ) Promise and Progress ( ) Divine Announcement: The Coming Glory of the Temple ( ) God will fulfill his promise ( ) Future Splendor of the temple ( ) Divine Announcement: Blessings for a Defiled People ( ) Former Misery ( ) Future Blessing ( ) Divine Announcement: Zerubbabel Chosen as a Signet ( ) Music The King James Version of Haggai 2:6–7 is used in the libretto of the English-language oratorio "Messiah" by George Frideric Handel (HWV 56). See also Darius I Joshua the High Priest , son of Jehozadak Old Testament messianic prophecies quoted in the New Testament Notes References Works cited External links Jewish translations: Chaggai – Haggai (Judaica Press) translation with Rashi's commentary at Chabad.org Christian translations: Online Bible at GospelHall.org (ESV, KJV, Darby, American Standard Version, Bible in Basic English) Various versions 6th-century BC books Twelve Minor Prophets
The Book of Zephaniah (, Ṣəfanyā; sometimes Latinized as Sophonias) is the ninth of the Twelve Minor Prophets of the Old Testament and Tanakh, preceded by the Book of Habakkuk and followed by the Book of Haggai. Zephaniah means "Yahweh has hidden/protected," or "Yahweh hides". Zephaniah is also a male given name. Authorship and date The book's superscription attributes its authorship to "Zephaniah son of Cushi son of Gedaliah son of Amariah son of Hezekiah, in the days of King Josiah son of Amon of Judah," All that is known of Zephaniah comes from the text. The name "Cushi," Zephaniah's father, means "Cushite" or "Ethiopian," and the text of Zephaniah mentions the sin and restoration of Cushim. While some have concluded from this that Zephaniah was dark-skinned and/or African, Ehud Ben Zvi maintains that, based on the context, "Cushi" must be understood as a personal name rather than an indicator of nationality. Abraham ibn Ezra interpreted the name Hezekiah in the superscription as King Hezekiah of Judah, though that is not a claim advanced in the text of Zephaniah. As with many of the other prophets, there is no external evidence to directly associate composition of the book with a prophet by the name of Zephaniah. Some scholars, such as Kent Harold Richards and Jason DeRouchie, consider the words in Zephaniah to reflect a time early in the reign of King Josiah (640–609 BC) before his reforms of 622 BC took full effect, in which case the prophet may have been born during the reign of Manasseh (698/687–642 BC). Others agree that some portion of the book is postmonarchic, that is, dating to later than 586 BC when the Kingdom of Judah fell in the Siege of Jerusalem. Some who consider the book to have largely been written by a historical Zephaniah have suggested that he may have been a disciple of Isaiah because of the two books' similar focus on rampant corruption and injustice in Judah. Purpose If Zephaniah was largely composed during the monarchic period, then its composition was occasioned by Judah's refusal to obey its covenant obligations toward Yahweh despite having seen Israel's exile a generation or two previously—an exile that the Judahite literary tradition attributed to Yahweh's anger against Israel's disobedience to his covenant. In this historical context, Zephaniah urges Judah to obedience to Yahweh, saying that "perhaps" he will forgive them if they do. Themes The HarperCollins Study Bible supplies headings for the book as follows: More consistently than any other prophetic book, Zephaniah focuses on "the day of the Lord," developing this tradition from its first appearance in Amos. The day of the Lord tradition also appears in Isaiah, Ezekiel, Obadiah, Joel, and Malachi. The book begins by describing Yahweh's judgement. With a triple repetition of "I will sweep away" in 1:2–3, Zephaniah emphasizes the totality of the destruction, as the number three often signifies perfection in the Bible. The order of creatures in Zephanaiah 1:2 ("humans and animals ... the birds ... the fish") is the opposite of the creation order in Genesis 1:1–28, signifying an undoing of creation. This is also signified by the way that "from the face of the earth" forms an inclusio around Zephaniah 1:2-3, hearkening back to how the phrase is used in the Genesis flood narrative in Genesis 6:7, Genesis 7:4, and Genesis 8:8, where it also connotes an undoing of creation. As is common in prophetic literature in the Bible, a "remnant" survives Yahweh's judgement in Zephaniah by humbly seeking refuge in Yahweh. The book concludes in an announcement of hope and joy, as Yahweh "bursts forth in joyful divine celebration" over his people. Later influence Because of its hopeful tone of the gathering and restoration of exiles, has been included in Jewish liturgy. Zephaniah served as a major inspiration for the medieval Catholic hymn "Dies Irae," whose title and opening words are from the Vulgate translation of . Notes References Further reading Berlin, Adele. Zephaniah: A New Translation with Introduction and Commentary. The Anchor Bible Volume 25A. Toronto: Doubleday, 1994. Easton's Bible Dictionary, 1897. Transcribed by Thomas M. Barrett. 2003. Hirsch, Emil G. & Ira Maurice Price. "Zephaniah." JewishEncyclopedia.com. 2002. LaSor, William Sanford et al. Old Testament Survey: the Message, Form, and Background of the Old Testament. Grand Rapids: William B. Eerdmans, 1996. O. Palmer Robertson. The Books of Nahum, Habakkuk, and Zephaniah (New International Commentary on the Old Testament, 1990) Sweeney, Marvin A. Zephaniah: A Commentary. Ed. Paul D. Hanson. Minneapolis, Fortress Press, 2003. External links Zephaniah at JewishEncyclopedia.com Translations of the book of Zephaniah Jewish translations: Tzefaniah – Zephaniah (Judaica Press) translation [with Rashi's commentary] at Chabad.org Christian translations: Online Bible at GospelHall.org (ESV, KJV, Darby, American Standard Version, Bible in Basic English) Zephaniah at CrossWalk.com (various versions) Zephaniah at The Great Books (New Revised Standard Version) Zephaniah at Wikisource (Authorized King James Version) Non-affiliated translations: The Heavenly Fire: Zephaniah (PDF) (Creative Commons translation with in-depth introduction and extensive translation notes) Various versions 7th-century BC books Twelve Minor Prophets
The galjoen, black bream, or blackfish (Dichistius capensis) is a species of marine fish found only along the coast of South Africa. Galjoen is the national fish of South Africa. Distribution and habitat The galjoen is indigenous to the coasts of southern Africa from Angola to South Africa, and is generally found around reefs at shallow depths around , often near the shore. Description This species can reach in total length and a weight of . The body is compressed, and the fins are well developed, with prominent spines, 10 of them, with between 18 and 23 rays. The anal fin has three spines, and usually 13 or 14 rays, the pelvic fins have 1 spine and 5 rays, and the pectoral fins are typically shorter than the head. The body, fins, and head, with the except of the front of the snout, are covered in scales. The lips are thick, with strong curved incisors at the front of the mouth, with smaller teeth behind the front incisors. Ecology Diet The species usually feeds on red and coraline seaweed and red bait, small mussels and barnacles found off rocky shores, and appear in particular to be a partial to the white mussels residing in the sandy beaches and inlets of the rocky outcrops along the southern coast. Home area In 2005, the movements of the species were extensively studied. Some 25,000 galjoen were tagged at four sites in reserves in South Africa and their overall movement was found to remain localised, with some 95% of fish studied seeming to indicate a particular area. Importance to humans Fishing It is important to local commercial fisheries and is also popular as a game fish. As food Due to their abundance in the shores off South Africa, galjoen is common in South African cuisine. A notable dish is the fish is sprinkled with pepper and lemon, or with lemon, mayonnaise, and melted garlic butter, and served with fresh bread and apricot jam. As the national fish of South Africa Galjoen is the national fish of South Africa. The suggestion to make it the national fish came from Margaret Smith, the wife of ichthyologist J. L. B. Smith, to find a marine equivalent to the springbok. Etymology The scientific name of Coracinus capensis is a reference to its black colour when found in rocky areas, Coracinus meaning "raven" or "black coloured"; in sandy areas it gives off a silver-bronze colour. References Dichistiidae National symbols of South Africa Taxa named by Georges Cuvier Fish described in 1831
The blue crane (Grus paradisea), also known as the Stanley crane and the paradise crane, is the national bird of South Africa. The species is listed as Vulnerable by the IUCN. Description The blue crane is a tall, ground-dwelling bird, but is fairly small by the standards of the crane family. It is tall, with a wingspan of and weighs . Among standard measurements, the wing chord measures , the exposed culmen measures and the tarsus measures . This crane is pale blue-gray in color becoming darker on the upper head, neck and nape. From the crown to the lores, the plumage is distinctly lighter, sometimes whitish. The bill is ochre to greyish, with a pink tinge. The long wingtip feathers which trail to the ground. The primaries are black to slate grey, with dark coverts and blackish on the secondaries. Unlike most cranes, it has a relatively large head and a proportionately thin neck. Juveniles are similar but slightly lighter, with tawny coloration on the head, and no long wing plumes. Habitat Blue cranes are birds of the dry grassy uplands, usually the pastured grasses of hills, valleys, and plains with a few scattered trees. They prefer areas in the nesting season that have access to both upland and wetland areas, though they feed almost entirely in dry areas. They are altitudinal migrants, generally nesting in the lower grasslands of an elevation of around 1,300 to 2,000 m and moving down to lower altitudes for winter. Movements and behaviour Of the 15 species of crane, the blue crane has the most restricted distribution of all. Even species with lower population numbers now (such as Siberian or whooping cranes) are found over a considerable range in their migratory movements. The blue crane is migratory, primarily altitudinal, but details are little known. The blue crane is partially social, less so during the breeding season. There is a strict hierarchy in groups, with the larger adult males being dominant. They overlap in range with three other crane species but interactions with these species and other "large wader" type birds are not known. They are aggressively protective of their nesting sites during the nesting season, even attacking innocent, non-predatory animals such as antelope, cattle, tortoises, plovers and the smallest of birds, such as sparrows. Humans are also attacked if they approach a nest too closely, with the aggressive male having torn clothes and drawn blood in such cases. Threats to their eggs and chicks include large savannah and white-throated monitor lizards, egg-eating snakes, foxes, jackals, birds-of-prey, meerkats, and mongoose. Feeding Blue cranes feed from the ground and appear to rarely feed near wetland areas. Most of their diet is comprised by grasses and sedges, with many types fed on based on their proximity to the nests. They are also regularly insectivorous, feeding on numerous, sizeable insects such as grasshoppers. Small animals such as crabs, snails, frogs, small lizards and snakes may supplement the diet, with such protein-rich food often being broken down and fed to the young. Breeding The breeding period is highly seasonal, with eggs being recorded between October and March. Pair-formation amongst groups often starts in October, beginning with both potential parents running in circles with each other. The male then engages in a "dance" flings various objects in the air and then jumps. Eventually, a female from the group and the male appear to "select" each other and both engage in the dance of throwing objects and jumping. After the dance, mating commences in around two weeks. In a great majority of known nests, two eggs are laid (rarely one or three). Both males and females will incubate, with the male often incubating at night and, during the day, defending the nest territory while the female incubates. The incubation stage lasts around 30 days. The young are able to walk after two days and can swim well shortly thereafter. They are fed primarily by their mothers, who regurgitates food into the mouths. The chicks fledge in the age of 3–5 months. The young continue to be tended to until the next breeding season, at which time they are chased off by their parents. Decline While it remains common in parts of its historic range, and approx. 26 000 individuals remain, it began a sudden population decline from around 1980 and is now classified as vulnerable. In the last two decades, the blue crane has largely disappeared from the Eastern Cape, Lesotho, and Eswatini. The population in the northern Free State, Limpopo, Gauteng, Mpumalanga and North West Province has declined by up to 90%. The majority of the remaining population is in eastern and southern South Africa, with a small and separate population in the Etosha Pan of northern Namibia. Occasionally, isolated breeding pairs are found in five neighbouring countries. The primary causes of the sudden decline of the blue crane are human population growth, the conversion of grasslands into commercial tree plantations, and poisoning: deliberate (to protect crops) or accidental (baits intended for other species, and as a side-effect of crop dusting). The South African government has stepped up legal protection for the blue crane. Other conservation measures are focusing on research, habitat management, education, and recruiting the help of private landowners. The blue crane is one of the species to which the Agreement on the Conservation of African-Eurasian Migratory Waterbirds (AEWA) applies. Since October 2021, the Blue Crane has been classified as Moderately Depleted by the IUCN. Cultural references The blue crane is culturally significant to the Xhosa people, who call it indwe (flag). Traditionally, when a man distinguished himself in battle or otherwise, he was often decorated by a chief with blue crane feathers in a ceremony called ukundzabela. Men so honoured, who would wear the feathers sticking out of their hair, were known as men of (trouble)—the implication being that if trouble arose, they would reinstate peace and order. It is also of significance to the Zulu people, whose kings and warriors wore a single or many feathers as a headdress. Because of the association with warriors and heroism, the Isitwalandwe Medal was created to honour those who had "made an outstanding contribution and sacrifice to the liberation struggle", that is, those who resisted the apartheid regime in South Africa (1949–1991) in various ways. Isitwalandwe means "the one who wears the plumes of the rare bird", or blue crane. The blue crane is also the national bird of South Africa. Videos References External links Species text for Blue Crane in The Atlas of Southern African Birds International Crane Foundation's Blue Crane page Blue Crane (Anthropoides paradises) from Cranes of the World by Paul Johnsgard Are traditional healers contributing to the decline of Blue Cranes in Namibia? Articles containing video clips Grus (genus) Birds of Southern Africa National symbols of South Africa Birds described in 1793 Taxa named by Anton August Heinrich Lichtenstein Taxobox binomials not recognized by IUCN
B is a programming language developed at Bell Labs circa 1969 by Ken Thompson and Dennis Ritchie. B was derived from BCPL, and its name may possibly be a contraction of BCPL. Thompson's coworker Dennis Ritchie speculated that the name might be based on Bon, an earlier, but unrelated, programming language that Thompson designed for use on Multics. B was designed for recursive, non-numeric, machine-independent applications, such as system and language software. It was a typeless language, with the only data type being the underlying machine's natural memory word format, whatever that might be. Depending on the context, the word was treated either as an integer or a memory address. As machines with ASCII processing became common, notably the DEC PDP-11 that arrived at Bell, support for character data stuffed in memory words became important. The typeless nature of the language was seen as a disadvantage, which led Thompson and Ritchie to develop an expanded version of the language supporting new internal and user-defined types, which became the C programming language. History Circa 1969, Ken Thompson and later Dennis Ritchie developed B basing it mainly on the BCPL language Thompson used in the Multics project. B was essentially the BCPL system stripped of any component Thompson felt he could do without in order to make it fit within the memory capacity of the minicomputers of the time. The BCPL to B transition also included changes made to suit Thompson's preferences (mostly along the lines of reducing the number of non-whitespace characters in a typical program). Much of the typical ALGOL-like syntax of BCPL was rather heavily changed in this process. The assignment operator := reverted to the = of Rutishauser's Superplan, and the equality operator = was replaced by ==. Thompson added "two-address assignment operators" using x =+ y syntax to add y to x (in C the operator is written +=). This syntax came from Douglas McIlroy's implementation of TMG, in which B's compiler was first implemented (and it came to TMG from ALGOL 68's x +:= y syntax). Thompson went further by inventing the increment and decrement operators (++ and --). Their prefix or postfix position determines whether the value is taken before or after alteration of the operand. This innovation was not in the earliest versions of B. According to Dennis Ritchie, people often assumed that they were created for the auto-increment and auto-decrement address modes of the DEC PDP-11, but this is historically impossible as the machine didn't exist when B was first developed. The semicolon version of the for loop was borrowed by Ken Thompson from the work of Stephen Johnson. B is typeless, or more precisely has one data type: the computer word. Most operators (e.g. +, -, *, /) treated this as an integer, but others treated it as a memory address to be dereferenced. In many other ways it looked a lot like an early version of C. There are a few library functions, including some that vaguely resemble functions from the standard I/O library in C. In Thompson's words: "B and the old old C were very very similar languages except for all the types [in C]". Early implementations were for the DEC PDP-7 and PDP-11 minicomputers using early Unix, and Honeywell 36-bit mainframes running the operating system GCOS. The earliest PDP-7 implementations compiled to threaded code, and Ritchie wrote a compiler using TMG which produced machine code. In 1970 a PDP-11 was acquired and threaded code was used for the port; an assembler, , and the B language itself were written in B to bootstrap the computer. An early version of yacc was produced with this PDP-11 configuration. Ritchie took over maintenance during this period. The typeless nature of B made sense on the Honeywell, PDP-7 and many older computers, but was a problem on the PDP-11 because it was difficult to elegantly access the character data type that the PDP-11 and most modern computers fully support. Starting in 1971 Ritchie made changes to the language while converting its compiler to produce machine code, most notably adding data typing for variables. During 1971 and 1972 B evolved into "New B" (NB) and then C. B is almost extinct, having been superseded by the C language. However, it continues to see use on GCOS mainframes () and on certain embedded systems () for a variety of reasons: limited hardware in small systems, extensive libraries, tooling, licensing cost issues, and simply being good enough for the job. The highly influential AberMUD was originally written in B. Examples The following examples are from the Users' Reference to B by Ken Thompson: /* The following function will print a non-negative number, n, to the base b, where 2<=b<=10. This routine uses the fact that in the ASCII character set, the digits 0 to 9 have sequential code values. */ printn(n, b) { extrn putchar; auto a; /* Wikipedia note: the auto keyword declares a variable with automatic storage (lifetime is function scope), not "automatic typing" as in C++11. */ if (a = n / b) /* assignment, not test for equality */ printn(a, b); /* recursive */ putchar(n % b + '0'); } /* The following program will calculate the constant e-2 to about 4000 decimal digits, and print it 50 characters to the line in groups of 5 characters. The method is simple output conversion of the expansion 1/2! + 1/3! + ... = .111.... where the bases of the digits are 2, 3, 4, . . . */ main() { extrn putchar, n, v; auto i, c, col, a; i = col = 0; while(i<n) v[i++] = 1; while(col<2*n) { a = n+1; c = i = 0; while (i<n) { c =+ v[i] *10; v[i++] = c%a; c =/ a--; } putchar(c+'0'); if(!(++col%5)) putchar(col%50?' ': '*n'); } putchar('*n*n'); } v[2000]; n 2000; See also Notes References External links Manual page for b(1) from Unix First Edition The Development of the C Language, Dennis M. Ritchie. Puts B in the context of BCPL and C. Users' Reference to B'', Ken Thompson. Describes the PDP-11 version. The Programming Language B, S. C. Johnson & B. W. Kernighan, Technical Report CS TR 8, Bell Labs (January 1973). The GCOS version on Honeywell equipment. B Language Reference Manual, Thinkage Ltd. The production version of the language as used on GCOS, including language and runtime library. Procedural programming languages Programming languages Programming languages created in 1969
BCE is an abbreviation meaning Before Common Era, an alternative to the use of BC. BCE, B.C.E. or bce may also refer to: Bachelor of Civil Engineering Banco Central del Ecuador Basic Chess Endings, a book by Reuben Fine BCE Inc., formerly Bell Canada Enterprises BCE Place, Toronto, Canada, later Brookfield Place Bracknell railway station, Berkshire, UK, code Bhagalpur College of Engineering Entity-control-boundary, an architectural pattern used in software design See also
BC most often refers to: Before Christ, a calendar era based on the traditionally reckoned year of the birth of Jesus of Nazareth British Columbia, the westernmost province of Canada Baja California, a state of Mexico BC may also refer to: Arts and entertainment "B.C.", a song by Sparks from the 1974 album Propaganda B.C. (comic strip) by Johnny Hart, and one of its characters BC (video game) by Lionhead Studios BC The Archaeology of the Bible Lands, a BBC television series Bullet Club, a professional wrestling stable Businesses and organizations Basilian Chouerite Order of Saint John the Baptist, an order of the Greek Catholic Church BC Card, a Korean credit card company Bella Center, a conference center in Copenhagen, Denmark Brasseries du Cameroun, a brewery in Cameroon (also known as SABC) Brunswick Corporation (NYSE ticker symbol BC) Education United States Bakersfield College, a college in Bakersfield, California Bellevue College, a college in Bellevue, Washington Benedictine College, a college in Atchison, Kansas Benedictine Military School, a high school in Savannah, Georgia Bergen Catholic High School, a high school in Oradell, New Jersey Boston College, a university in Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts Boston College Eagles, its athletic teams Brazosport College, a college in Lake Jackson, Texas Broward College, a college in Fort Lauderdale, Florida Worldwide Baccalaureus or bc, a Bachelor's degree in the Netherlands Baghdad College, a high school in Baghdad, Iraq British Council Science and technology Backcrossing, a crossing of a hybrid with one of its parents, or a genetically similar individual Backward compatibility, the ability of new software to work similarly to its predecessor Ballistic coefficient, a measure of air drag on a projectile Base curve radius, a parameter of a contact lens Battle command, a military discipline Bayonet cap, a standard light bulb connection bc (programming language), an arbitrary-precision calculator language Black carbon, a carbonaceous component of soot Bliss bibliographic classification, a library cataloguing system × Brassocattleya or Bc., an orchid genus Buoyancy compensator (diving), a piece of scuba diving equipment Transportation NZR BC class, a type of steam locomotive Skymark Airlines (IATA airline code BC) Other uses Bullcrap, a phrase denoting something worthless "B.C.", nickname of Burr Chamberlain (1877–1933), American football player and coach Baguio, a city in the Philippines, locally abbreviated as "B.C." BC Powder, a brand of pain reliever BookCrossing, a website that encourages leaving books in public places to be found by others See also BC Cygni, a red supergiant star that is one of the largest stars Belaruskaja Čyhunka (BCh), the national railway company of Belarus Blind carbon copy (Bcc:), the practice of sending an e-mail to multiple recipients without disclosing the complete list of recipients
The British thermal unit (BTU or Btu) is a measure of heat, which is a form of energy. It was originally defined as the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of one pound of water by one degree Fahrenheit. It is also part of the United States customary units. The SI unit for energy is the joule (J); one BTU equals about 1,055 J (varying within the range of 1,054–1,060 J depending on the specific definition; see below). While units of heat are often supplanted by energy units in scientific work, they are still used in some fields. For example, in the United States the price of natural gas is quoted in dollars per the amount of natural gas that would give 1 million BTUs (1 "MMBtu") of heat energy if burned. Definitions A BTU was originally defined as the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of 1 avoirdupois pound of liquid water by 1 degree Fahrenheit at a constant pressure of one atmospheric unit. There are several different definitions of the BTU that differ slightly. This reflects the fact that the temperature change of a mass of water due to the addition of a specific amount of heat (calculated in energy units, usually joules) depends slightly upon the water's initial temperature. As seen in the table below, definitions of the BTU based on different water temperatures vary by up to 0.5%. Prefixes Units of kBtu are used in building energy use tracking and heating system sizing. Energy Use Index (EUI) represents kBtu per square foot of conditioned floor area. "k" stands for 1,000. The unit Mbtu is used in natural gas and other industries to indicate 1,000 BTUs. However, there is an ambiguity in that the metric system (SI) uses the prefix "M" to indicate 'Mega-', one million (1,000,000). Even so, "MMbtu" is often used to indicate one million BTUs particularly in the oil and gas industry. Energy analysts accustomed to the metric "k" ('kilo-') for 1,000 are more likely to use MBtu to represent one million, especially in documents where M represents one million in other energy or cost units, such as MW, MWh and $. The unit 'therm' is used to represent 100,000 BTUs. A decatherm is 10 therms or one MMBtu (million Btu). The unit quad is commonly used to represent one quadrillion (1015) BTUs. Conversions One Btu is approximately: (kilojoules) (watt hours) (calories) (kilocalories) 25,031 to 25,160 ft⋅pdl (foot-poundal) (foot-pounds-force) 5.40395 (lbf/in2)⋅ft3 A Btu can be approximated as the heat produced by burning a single wooden kitchen match or as the amount of energy it takes to lift a weight . For natural gas In natural gas pricing, the Canadian definition is that ≡ . The energy content (high or low heating value) of a volume of natural gas varies with the composition of the natural gas, which means there is no universal conversion factor for energy to volume. of average natural gas yields ≈ 1,030 Btu (between 1,010 Btu and 1,070 Btu, depending on quality, when burned) As a coarse approximation, of natural gas yields ≈ ≈ . For natural gas price conversion ≈ 36.9 million Btu and ≈ BTU/h The SI unit of power for heating and cooling systems is the watt. Btu per hour (Btu/h) is sometimes used in North America and the United Kingdom - the latter for air conditioning mainly, though "Btu/h" is sometimes abbreviated to just "Btu". MBH—thousands of Btus per hour—is also common. 1 W is approximately 1,000 Btu/h is approximately 1 hp is approximately Associated units 1 ton of cooling, a common unit in North American refrigeration and air conditioning applications, is . It is the rate of heat transfer needed to freeze of water into ice in 24 hours. In the United States and Canada, the R-value that describes the performance of thermal insulation is typically quoted in square foot degree Fahrenheit hours per British thermal unit (ft2⋅°F⋅h/Btu). For one square foot of the insulation, one BTU per hour of heat flows across the insulator for each degree of temperature difference across it. 1 therm is defined in the United States and European Union as 100,000 BTU—but the U.S. uses the while the EU uses the BTUIT. United Kingdom regulations were amended to replace therms with joules with effect from 1 January 2000. the therm is still used in natural gas pricing in the United Kingdom. 1 quad (short for quadrillion Btu) is 1015 Btu, which is about 1 exajoule (). Quads are used in the United States for representing the annual energy consumption of large economies: for example, the U.S. economy used 99.75 quads in 2005. One quad/year is about 33.43 gigawatts. The Btu should not be confused with the Board of Trade Unit (BTU), an obsolete UK synonym for kilowatt hour (). The Btu is often used to express the conversion-efficiency of heat into electrical energy in power plants. Figures are quoted in terms of the quantity of heat in Btu required to generate 1 kW⋅h of electrical energy. A typical coal-fired power plant works at , an efficiency of 32–33%. The centigrade heat unit (CHU) is the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of one pound of water by one Celsius degree. It is equal to 1.8 BTU or 1,899 joules. In 1974, this unit was "still sometimes used" in the United Kingdom as an alternative to BTU. Another legacy unit for energy in the metric system is the calorie, which is defined as the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of one gram of water by one degree Celsius. See also Conversion of units Latent heat Metrication Ton of refrigeration Notes References External links Units of energy Imperial units Customary units of measurement in the United States
Benchmark may refer to: Business and economics Benchmarking, evaluating performance within organizations Benchmark price Benchmark (crude oil), oil-specific practices Science and technology Benchmark (surveying), a point of known elevation marked for the purpose of surveying Benchmarking (geolocating), an activity involving finding benchmarks Benchmark (computing), the result of running a computer program to assess performance Benchmark, a best-performing, or gold standard test in medicine and statistics Companies Benchmark Electronics, an electronics manufacturer Benchmark (venture capital firm), a venture capital firm Benchmark Recordings, a music label with CDs by the Fabulous Thunderbirds and Mike Bloomfield Other uses Benchmarking (journal), a bimonthly peer-reviewed academic journal relating to the field of quality management McAfee's Benchmark, a brand of bourbon Benchmark (game show), on UK Channel 4 See also Specification (technical standard)
Band or BAND may refer to: Places Bánd, a village in Hungary Band, Iran, a village in Urmia County, West Azerbaijan Province, Iran Band, Mureș, a commune in Romania Band-e Majid Khan, a village in Bukan County, West Azerbaijan Province, Iran People Band (surname), various people with the surname Arts, entertainment, and media Music Musical ensemble, a group of people who perform instrumental or vocal music Band (rock and pop), a small ensemble that plays rock or pop Concert band, an ensemble of woodwind, brass, and percussion instruments Dansband, band playing popular music for a partner-dancing audience Jazz band, a musical ensemble that plays jazz music Marching band, a group of instrumental musicians who generally perform outdoors School band, a group of student musicians who rehearse and perform instrumental music The Band, a Canadian-American rock and roll group The Band (album), The Band's eponymous 1969 album "Bands" (song), by American rapper Comethazine "The Band", a 2002 single by Mando Diao Other uses in arts, entertainment and media Band, nickname of Brazilian television network Rede Bandeirantes The Band (film), a 1978 Israeli film The Band (musical), a 2017 musical by Tim Firth with the music of Take That Clothing, jewelry, and accessories Armband or arm band Smart band a band with electronic component Microsoft Band, a smart band with smartwatch features from the software giant Bandolier or bandoleer, an ammunition belt Bands (neckwear), two pieces of cloth fitted around the neck as part of formal clothing for clergy, academics, and lawyers Belt (clothing), a flexible band or strap, typically made of leather or heavy cloth, and worn around the waist Strap, an elongated flap or ribbon, usually of fabric or leather Wedding band, a metal ring indicating the wearer is married Military Bands (Italian Army irregulars), 19th- and 20th-century military units in the service of the Italian "Regio Esercito" Female order of the Band, a medieval military order native to Spain Order of the Band, a medieval military order native to Spain Science and technology Band (algebra), an idempotent semigroup Band (order theory), a solid subset of an ordered vector space that contains its supremums Band (radio), a range of frequencies or wavelengths in radio and radar, specifically: Frequency band LTE frequency bands used for cellphone data Shortwave bands UMTS frequency bands used for cellphones BAND (software), a mobile app that facilitates group communication Band cell, a type of white blood cell Bird banding, placing a numbered metal band on a bird's leg for identification Electronic band structure of electrons in solid-state physics Gastric band, a human weight-control measure Signaling (telecommunications): In-band signaling Out-of-band Birds Are Not Dinosaurs, or BAND, a controversial stance on the origin of birds Society and government Band (First Nations Canada), the primary unit of First Nations Government in Canada Band society, a small group of humans in a simple form of society Tribe (Native American), a tribe, band, nation, or other group or community of Indigenous peoples in the United States Other uses Rubber band The Band (professional wrestling), the Total Nonstop Wrestling name for the professional wrestling stable New World Order See also Band of Brothers (disambiguation) Bandage Banding (disambiguation) Bandy (disambiguation) Bend (disambiguation) Drum and bugle corps (disambiguation) Herd, a social grouping of certain animals of the same species Ribbon (disambiguation) Stripe (disambiguation)
The backbone cabal was an informal organization of large-site news server administrators of the worldwide distributed newsgroup-based discussion system Usenet. It existed from about 1983 at least into the 2000s. The cabal was created in an effort to facilitate reliable propagation of new Usenet posts. While in the 1970s and 1980s many news servers only operated during night time to save on the cost of long-distance communication, servers of the backbone cabal were available 24 hours a day. The administrators of these servers gained sufficient influence in the otherwise anarchic Usenet community to be able to push through controversial changes, for instance the Great Renaming of Usenet newsgroups during 1987. History Mary Ann Horton recruited membership in and designed the original physical topology of the Usenet Backbone in 1983. Gene "Spaf" Spafford then created an email list of the backbone administrators, plus a few influential posters. This list became known as the Backbone Cabal and served as a "political (i.e. decision making) backbone". Other prominent members of the cabal were Brian Reid, Bob Allisat, Chuq von Rospach and Rick Adams. In internet culture During most of its existence, the cabal (sometimes capitalized) steadfastly denied its own existence; those involved would often respond "There is no Cabal" (sometimes abbreviated as "TINC"'). The result of this policy was an aura of mystery, even a decade after the cabal mailing list disbanded in late 1988 following an internal fight. References Further reading Henry Edward Hardy, 1993. The Usenet System, ITCA Teleconferencing Yearbook 1993, ITCA Research Committee, International Teleconferencing Association, Washington, DC. pp 140–151, esp. subheading "The Great Renaming" and "The Breaking of the Backbone Cartel". External links Cabal Conspiracy FAQ (archived May 2013) Lumber Cartel The Eric Conspiracy This article incorporates text from the corresponding entry in the Jargon File, which is in the public domain according to its Introduction. Usenet Internet memes 1980s in Internet culture
Brabant is a traditional geographical region (or regions) in the Low Countries of Europe. It may refer to: Place names in Europe Belgium Province of Brabant, which in 1995 was split up into two provinces and an autonomous region: Flemish Brabant, in the Flanders region Walloon Brabant, in the Wallonia region Brussels-Capital Region Klein-Brabant, the municipalities Bornem, Puurs and Sint-Amands in the Antwerp province of Flanders region East Brabant, or Hageland, an area east of Brussels between the cities of Leuven, Aarschot, Diest and Tienen Netherlands North Brabant province France Brabant-en-Argonne, commune in the Meuse department Brabant-le-Roi, commune in the Meuse department Brabant-lès-Villers (1973–1982), former commune, amalgamation of Brabant-le-Roi and Villers-aux-Vents Geology London-Brabant Massif, a geological structure stretching from England to northern Germany Historical use Pagus of Brabant, the original, early medieval territory, divided between several counts, core of the later Landgraviate Landgraviate of Brabant (1085–1183), an expansive medieval lordship including Brussels, core of the later Duchy Duchy of Brabant, a duchy of the Holy Roman Empire from 1183 until the French Revolution, by which time the northern half was lost to the Dutch Republic Staats-Brabant, a territory of the Dutch Republic directly governed by the States-General from 1588 until the French Revolution Département of Brabant, a département under various forms of French control, formed from an earlier French Département of the Dommel, and predecessor of modern North Brabant. Province of Brabant (called South Brabant, 1815–1830), part of the United Kingdom of the Netherlands, based on earlier French département of the Dyle, became part of Belgium in 1830, now divided into three parts (see above) Royalty and nobility House of Brabant descended from the Reginarid family of Lotharingia Duke of Brabant, a dynastic title of the modern Belgian royal family Place names outside Europe Brabant Lake, Saskatchewan, Canada Port Brabant, former name of Tuktoyaktuk, Canada Brabant, West Virginia, United States Le Morne Brabant, a mountain on Mauritius Brabant Island, Antarctica Other uses Brabant (or Brabançon), other names for the Belgian Draught, a Belgian breed of horse Brabantian, a dialect that formed the basis of the Dutch language Brabançonne (or "the Brabantian"), the national anthem of Belgium Brabant killers, a 1980s terrorist group HNLMS Noord-Brabant ('North Brabant'), several ships of the Dutch navy Brabant Company, precursor of the Dutch East India Company (VOC) Brabant (train), a Paris-Brussels express train 1963–1995 Brabant (cruise ship), operated by Fred. Olsen Cruise Lines
A banshee ( ; Modern Irish , from , "woman of the fairy mound" or "fairy woman") is a female spirit in Irish folklore who heralds the death of a family member, usually by screaming, wailing, shrieking, or keening. Her name is connected to the mythologically important tumuli or "mounds" that dot the Irish countryside, which are known as (singular ) in Old Irish. Description Sometimes she has long streaming hair, which she may be seen combing, with some legends specifying she can only keen while combing her hair. She wears a grey cloak over a green dress, and her eyes are red from continual weeping. She may be dressed in white with red hair and a ghastly complexion, according to a firsthand account by Ann, Lady Fanshawe in her Memoirs. Lady Wilde in her books provides others: In John O'Brien's Irish-English dictionary, the entry for Síth-Bhróg states:"hence bean-síghe, plural mná-síghe, she-fairies or women-fairies, credulously supposed by the common people to be so affected to certain families that they are heard to sing mournful lamentations about their houses by night, whenever any of the family labours under a sickness which is to end by death, but no families which are not of an ancient & noble Stock, are believed to be honoured with this fairy privilege". Keening In Ireland and parts of Scotland, a traditional part of mourning is the keening woman (bean chaointe), who wails a lament —in ('weeping'), pronounced in the Irish dialects of Munster and southern Galway, in Connacht (except south Galway) and (particularly west) Ulster, and in Ulster, particularly in the traditional dialects of north and east Ulster, including Louth. This keening woman may in some cases be a professional, and the best keeners would be in high demand. Irish legend speaks of a lament being sung by a fairy woman, or banshee. She would sing it when a family member died or was about to die, even if the person had died far away and news of their death had not yet come. In those cases, her wailing would be the first warning the household had of the death. The banshee is also a predictor of death. If someone is about to enter a situation where it is unlikely they will come out alive she will warn people by screaming or wailing, giving rise to a banshee also being known as a wailing woman. The banshee was also associated with the death coach, being said to either summon it with her keening or to travel in tandem with it. When several banshees appear at once, it indicates the death of someone great or holy. The tales sometimes recounted that the woman, though called a fairy, was a ghost, often of a specific murdered woman, or a mother who died in childbirth. In some parts of Leinster, she is referred to as the bean chaointe (keening woman) whose wail can be so piercing that it shatters glass. In Scottish folklore, a similar creature is known as the bean nighe or ban nigheachain (little washerwoman) or nigheag na h-àth (little washer at the ford) and is seen washing the bloodstained clothes or armour of those who are about to die. In Welsh folklore, a similar creature is known as the cyhyraeth. Accounts reach as far back as 1380 to the publication of the Cathreim Thoirdhealbhaigh (Triumphs of Torlough) by Sean mac Craith. Mentions of banshees can also be found in Norman literature of that time. Associated families Some sources suggest that the banshee laments only the descendants of the "pure Milesian stock" of Ireland, with the original belief appearing to associate the folklore with a number of ancient Irish families. According to this tradition, a banshee would not lament or visit someone of Saxon or Norman descent or who came to Ireland later. Most, but not all, surnames associated with banshees have the Ó or Mc/Mac prefix – that is, surnames of Goidelic origin, indicating a family native to the Insular Celtic lands rather than those of the Norse, Anglo-Saxon, or Norman. There are some exceptions to this lore, including that a banshee may lament a person who had been "gifted with music and song". There are accounts, for example, of the Geraldines hearing a banshee – as they had reputedly become "more Irish than the Irish themselves". And that the Bunworth Banshee, associated with the Rev. Charles Bunworth (a name of Anglo-Saxon origin), heralded the death of an Irish person who had been a patron to musicians. According to tradition, some families had their own banshee, with the Ua Briain banshee, named Aibell, being the ruler of 25 other banshees who would always be at her attendance. See also Baobhan Sith Cailleach Caoineag Clíodhna La Llorona Klagmuhme Madam Koi Koi Psychopomp Siren White Lady (ghost) Devil Bird, a similar omen in Sri Lankan folklore References Further reading External links Aos Sí Fairies Fantasy creatures Female legendary creatures Irish folklore Irish ghosts Irish legendary creatures Personifications of death Psychopomps Supernatural legends Tuatha Dé Danann
Body substance isolation is a practice of isolating all body substances (blood, urine, feces, tears, etc.) of individuals undergoing medical treatment, particularly emergency medical treatment of those who might be infected with illnesses such as HIV, or hepatitis so as to reduce as much as possible the chances of transmitting these illnesses. BSI is similar in nature to universal precautions, but goes further in isolating workers from pathogens, including substances now known to carry HIV. Place of body substance isolation practice in history Practice of Universal precautions was introduced in 1985–88. In 1987, the practice of Universal precautions was adjusted by a set of rules known as body substance isolation. In 1996, both practices were replaced by the latest approach known as standard precautions (health care). Nowadays and in isolation, practice of body substance isolation has just historical significance. Body substance isolation went further than universal precautions in isolating workers from pathogens, including substances now currently known to carry HIV. These pathogens fall into two broad categories, bloodborne (carried in the body fluids) and airborne. The practice of BSI was common in Pre-Hospital care and emergency medical services due to the often unknown nature of the patient and his/her disease or medical conditions. It was a part of the National Standards Curriculum for Prehospital Providers and Firefighters.Types of body substance isolation included: Hospital gowns Medical gloves Shoe covers Surgical mask or N95 Respirator Safety Glasses It was postulated that BSI precautions should be practiced in environment where treaters were exposed to bodily fluids, such as: blood, semen, preseminal fluid, vaginal secretions, synovial fluid, amniotic fluid, cerebrospinal fluid, pleural fluid, peritoneal fluid, marrow, pericardial fluid, feces, nasal secretions, urine, vomitus, sputum, mucus, cervical mucus, phlegm, saliva, breastmilk, colostrum, and secretions and blood from the umbilical cord Such infection control techniques that were recommended following the AIDS outbreak in the 1980s. Every patient was treated as if infected and therefore precautions were taken to minimize risk. Other conditions which called for minimizing risks with BSI: Diseases with air-borne transmission (e.g., tuberculosis) Diseases with droplet transmission (e.g., mumps, rubella, influenza, pertussis) Transmission by direct or indirect contact with dried skin (e.g., colonisation with MRSA) or contaminated surfaces Prion diseases (e.g., Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease) or any combination of the above. See also Barrier nursing Footnotes Further reading Medical hygiene
Blitz, German for "lightning", may refer to: Military uses Blitzkrieg, blitz campaign, or blitz, a type of military campaign The Blitz, the German aerial campaign against Britain in the Second World War , an Imperial German Navy light cruiser built in 1882 Computing Blitz (software), a cloud-based load-and performance-testing service Blitz BASIC, a dialect of the BASIC programming language Blitz++, a C++ class library for scientific computing BlitzMail, the internal e-mail network at Dartmouth College Blitz Research, a New Zealand software company Film and television Blitz (2011 film), a film starring Jason Statham Blitz (upcoming film), an upcoming World War II-themed historical drama film Blitz or Killing Cars, a 1986 Michael Verhoeven film Blitz, a fictional anthropomorphic doberman from Road Rovers Blitz, a robot dog from the cartoon C.O.P.S. The Blitz, in the "Blitzgiving" episode of How I Met Your Mother Games Blitz (game), a card game Blitz (video game), a VIC-20 game Blitz: The League, a 2005 American football game series Blitz chess, fast chess in which each player is allotted less than ten minutes Blitz Games, a British computer games company Blitz, a playable character in Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Siege World of Tanks Blitz, a mobile game based on the PC version (WoT) World of Tanks Literature Blitz (British magazine), an influential British "style" magazine of the 1980s Blitz (Portuguese magazine), a Portuguese music magazine, started in 1984 as a newspaper Blitz (newspaper), Indian investigative newspaper, started in 1941 by Russi Karanjia Weekly Blitz, a weekly Bangladeshi newspaper Blitz (Big Bang Comics), a Flash-based Big Bang Comics hero Blitz (Marvel Comics) Blitz, the alter-ego of George in the web comic Bob and George Music Blitz (British band), a punk rock band Blitz (Brazilian band), a new-wave band from the 1980s Bobby Ellsworth or Blitz, American thrash metal musician Blitz (Étienne Daho album) (2017) Blitz (KMFDM album) (2009) The Blitz (Krokus album) (1984) The Blitz (Thebandwithnoname album) (2002) Blitz!, a musical by Lionel Bart "Blitz", a song by Audio Adrenaline from Some Kind of Zombie (1997) Nightclubs Blitz Club, a techno nightclub in Munich, Germany Blitz, a 1980s night club in London frequented by the Blitz Kids Sports American football Blitz (gridiron football), a type of defensive tactic The Blitz (ESPNEWS), a TV show on ESPNEWS Blitz (mascot), the mascot of the Seattle Seahawks Bakersfield Blitz, a former arena football team Chicago Blitz, a United States Football League team in the 1980s Chicago Blitz (indoor football), a defunct professional indoor football team Chicago Blitz (X League), an American women's gridiron football team London Blitz (American football), a London-based team Montreal Blitz, a women's team Syracuse Blitz, a former Professional Indoor Football League team Other sports Blitz defence, a defensive technique used in rugby union SV Blitz Breslau, a defunct German association football team Blitz (company), a Japanese tuning company which competes in the D1 Grand Prix Other uses Blitz (surname), a surname and list of people with the name Opel Blitz, various German lorries built by Opel from 1930 to 1975 Blitz (movement), a radical youth movement in Norway Blitz campaign, or blitz, a type of marketing campaign See also Utah Blitzz, former professional soccer team Blitzy, a fictional dog character from Mona the Vampire Bristol Blitz, the German bombing raids on Bristol, England in 1940 and 1941 Hull Blitz, the German Second World War bombing campaign targeting Kingston upon Hull Rotterdam Blitz, the German bombing raid on Rotterdam, Netherlands in 1940 World of Tanks Blitz, an online game Blitzkrieg (disambiguation) Blitzer (disambiguation)
Burnt-in timecode (often abbreviated to BITC by analogy to VITC) is a human-readable on-screen version of the timecode information for a piece of material superimposed on a video image. BITC is sometimes used in conjunction with "real" machine-readable timecode, but more often used in copies of original material on to a non-broadcast format such as VHS, so that the VHS copies can be traced back to their master tape and the original time codes easily located. Many professional VTRs can "burn" (overlay) the tape timecode onto one of their outputs. This output (which usually also displays the setup menu or on-screen display) is known as the super out or monitor out. The character switch or menu item turns this behaviour on or off. The character function is also used to display the timecode on the preview monitors in linear editing suites. Videotapes that are recorded with timecode numbers overlaid on the video are referred to as window dubs, named after the "window" that displays the burnt-in timecode on-screen. When editing was done using magnetic tapes that were subject to damage from excessive wear, it was common to use a window dub as a working copy for the majority of the editing process. Editing decisions would be made using a window dub, and no specialized equipment was needed to write down an edit decision list which would then be replicated from the high-quality masters. Timecode can also be superimposed on video using a dedicated overlay device, often called a "window dub inserter". This inputs a video signal and its separate timecode audio signal, reads the timecode, superimposes the timecode display over the video, and outputs the combined display (usually via composite), all in real time. Stand-alone timecode generator / readers often have the window dub function built-in. Some consumer cameras, in particular DV cameras, can "burn" (overlay) the tape timecode onto the composite output. This output typically is semi-transparent and may include other tape information. It is usually activated by turning on the 'display' info in one of the camera's sub-menus. While not as 'professional' as an overlay as created by a professional VCRs, it is a cheap alternative that is just as accurate. Timecode is stored in the metadata areas of captured DV AVI files, and some software is able to "burn" (overlay) this into the video frames. For example, DVMP Pro is able to "burn" timecode or other items of DV metadata (such as date and time, iris, shutter speed, gain, white balance mode, etc.) into DV AVI files. OCR techniques can be used to read BITC in situations where other forms of timecode are not available. See also Linear timecode Vertical interval timecode SMPTE time code MIDI timecode CTL timecode AES-EBU embedded timecode Rewritable consumer timecode References Timecodes Film and video technology
The Bank of China Tower (BOC Tower) is a skyscraper located in Central, Hong Kong. Located at 1 Garden Road on Hong Kong Island, the tower houses the headquarters of the Bank of China (Hong Kong) Limited. One of the most recognisable landmarks in Hong Kong, the building is notable for its distinct shape and design, consisting of triangular frameworks covered by glass curtain walls. The building was designed by Chinese-American architect I. M. Pei and L. C. Pei of I. M. Pei and Partners. At a height of , reaching high including a spire, the building is the fourth tallest skyscraper in Hong Kong, after International Commerce Centre, Two International Finance Centre and Central Plaza. It was the tallest building in Hong Kong and Asia from 1990 to 1992, and it was the first supertall skyscraper outside the United States, the first to break the 305 m (1,000 ft) mark. It was surpassed by Central Plaza on the same island in 1992. Construction began on 18 April 1985 on the former site of Murray House, and was completed five years later in 1990. Sporting a steel-column design, the building is accessible from the MTR's Central station. The building lies between Cotton Tree Drive and Garden Road. History Site The site on which the building is constructed was formerly the location of Murray House. After its brick-by-brick relocation to Stanley, the site was sold by the Government for "only HK$1 billion" in August 1982 amidst growing concern over the future of Hong Kong in the run-up to the transfer of sovereignty. The building was initially built by the Hong Kong Branch of the Bank of China; its Garden Road entrance continues to display the name "Bank of China", rather than BOCHK. The top four and the bottom 19 stories are used by the Bank, while the other floors are leased out. Ownership has since been transferred to BOCHK, although the Bank of China has leased back several floors for use by its own operations in Hong Kong. Favouritism controversy The Government had apparently given preferential treatment to Chinese companies, and was again criticised for the apparent preferential treatment to the BOCHK. The price paid was half the amount of the 6,250 m2 Admiralty II plot, for which the MTR Corporation paid HK$1.82 billion in cash. The BOC would make initial payment of $60 million, with the rest payable over 13 years at 6% interest. The announcement of the sale was also poorly handled, and a dive in business confidence ensued. The Hang Seng Index fell 80 points, and the HK$ lost 1.5% of its value the next day. Construction The tower was built by Japanese contractor Kumagai Gumi. Superstructure work began in May 1986. The tower is a steel-frame structure. The Tiananmen Square protests of 1989 interrupted publicity surrounding the building's design and construction. A press conference scheduled for 24 May 1989, two weeks before the incident, was intended to show off the building's "designer socialist furnishings", but was called off as the student demonstrations in Beijing escalated. The public relations firm that organised the conference explained to the South China Morning Post that "under the circumstances, it has been decided to stop any publicity to do with the Bank of China." Once developed, gross floor area was expected to be 100,000 m2. The original project was intended for completion on the auspicious date of 8 August 1988. However, owing to project delays, groundbreaking took place in March 1985, almost two years late. It was topped out in 1989, and occupied on 15 June 1990. Architecture Designed by Pritzker Prize-winning architect I. M. Pei, the building is high with two masts reaching high. The 72-storey building is located near Central MTR station. This was the tallest building in Hong Kong and Asia from 1990 to 1992, the first building outside the United States to break the 305 m (1,000 ft) mark, and the first composite space frame high-rise building. That also means it was the tallest outside the United States from its completion year, 1990. It is now the fourth tallest skyscraper in Hong Kong, after International Commerce Centre, Two International Finance Centre and Central Plaza. A small observation deck on the 43rd floor of the building was once open to the public, but is now closed. The whole structure is supported by the four steel columns at the corners of the building, with the triangular frameworks transferring the weight of the structure onto these four columns. It is covered with glass curtain walls. Structural engineer Leslie E. Robertson, best known for his work on the Twin Towers of the original World Trade Center, provided the structural engineering design, while Jaros, Baum & Bolles was the mechanical, electrical and plumbing engineer. While its distinctive look makes it one of Hong Kong's most identifiable landmarks today, it was the source of some controversy at one time, as the bank is the only major building in Hong Kong to have bypassed the convention of consulting with feng shui masters on matters of design prior to construction. The building has been criticised by some practitioners of feng shui for its sharp edges and its negative symbolism by the numerous 'X' shapes in its original design, though Pei modified the design to some degree before construction following this feedback. The building's profile from some angles resembles that of a meat cleaver and it is sometimes referred to as a "vertical knife". This earned it the nickname () in Cantonese, literally meaning 'one knife'. Transport The Bank of China Tower can be accessed by the Mass Transit Railway (MTR) by walking through Chater Garden from Central station Exit J2. In popular culture In 1988 the film Police Story 2, the building was shown during its construction In the 2012 film Battleship, the building is torn in half by a crashing alien spaceship and its spire falls into the streets of Hong Kong, killing many people. In Star Trek: Voyager, the building is used as the exterior of Starfleet Communications Research Center. The building is seen on the attraction It's a Small World at Hong Kong Disneyland. The building was featured in the film Transformers: Age of Extinction, where Bumblebee and Dinobot Strafe makes their final stand against the Decepticon drone Stinger. The building appears in Cardcaptor Sakura: The Movie for several scenes. The building was featured in the city-building game SimCity 3000 as a placeable landmark. The building was featured in the 2017 mobile game Theowtown as a vanilla landmark. The building (renamed to Mortensen Electric) appears in the 2012 action-adventure video game Sleeping Dogs in the Central District. In the 2021 movie Godzilla vs Kong, the building is featured prominently throughout the battle between Godzilla and Kong in Hong Kong. Despite being in close proximity to the battle, the tower is not destroyed and is still standing at the end of the battle. See also Bank of China Building, the old headquarters of the Bank of China List of tallest buildings in Hong Kong List of buildings and structures in Hong Kong List of tallest freestanding structures References External links About BOC Tower on Bank of China (Hong Kong) website Great Buildings Online site on BOC Tower Buildable paper model of the tower Elevator Layout Branch Details for Hong Kong Bank of China Tower 1990 establishments in Hong Kong Bank buildings in Hong Kong Bank of China Central, Hong Kong I. M. Pei buildings Landmarks in Hong Kong Office buildings completed in 1990 Skyscraper office buildings in Hong Kong
are Japanese supernatural beings that are said to devour nightmares. According to legend, they were created by the spare pieces that were left over when the gods finished creating all other animals. They have a long history in Japanese folklore and art, and more recently have appeared in manga and anime. The Japanese term baku has two current meanings, referring to both the traditional dream-devouring creature and to the Malayan tapir. In recent years, there have been changes in how the baku is depicted. History and description The traditional Japanese nightmare-devouring baku originates in Chinese folklore about the mo 貘 (giant panda) and was familiar in Japan as early as the Muromachi period (14th–15th century). Hori Tadao has described the dream-eating abilities attributed to the traditional baku and relates them to other preventatives against nightmare such as amulets. Kaii-Yōkai Denshō Database, citing a 1957 paper, and Mizuki also describe the dream-devouring capacities of the traditional baku. An early 17th-century Japanese manuscript, the Sankai Ibutsu (), describes the baku as a shy, Chinese mythical chimera with the trunk and tusks of an elephant, the ears of a rhinoceros, the tail of a cow, the body of a bear and the paws of a tiger, which protected against pestilence and evil, although eating nightmares was not included among its abilities. However, in a 1791 Japanese wood-block illustration, a specifically dream-destroying baku is depicted with an elephant’s head, tusks, and trunk, with horns and tiger’s claws. The elephant’s head, trunk, and tusks are characteristic of baku portrayed in classical era (pre-Meiji) Japanese wood-block prints (see illustration) and in shrine, temple, and netsuke carvings. Writing in the Meiji period, Lafcadio Hearn (1902) described a baku with very similar attributes that was also able to devour nightmares. Legend has it that a person who wakes up from a bad dream can call out to baku. A child having a nightmare in Japan will wake up and repeat three times, "Baku-san, come eat my dream." Legends say that the baku will come into the child's room and devour the bad dream, allowing the child to go back to sleep peacefully. However, calling to the baku must be done sparingly, because if he remains hungry after eating one's nightmare, he may also devour their hopes and desires as well, leaving them to live an empty life. The baku can also be summoned for protection from bad dreams prior to falling asleep at night. In the 1910s, it was common for Japanese children to keep a baku talisman at their bedside. Gallery See also Dreamcatcher References Bibliography Kaii-Yōkai Denshō Database. International Research Center for Japanese Studies. Retrieved on 2007-05-12. (Summary of excerpt from Warui Yume o Mita Toki (, When You've Had a Bad Dream?) by Keidō Matsushita, published in volume 5 of the journal Shōnai Minzoku (, Shōnai Folk Customs) on June 15, 1957). External links Baku – The Dream Eater at hyakumonogatari.com (English). Netsuke: masterpieces from the Metropolitan Museum of Art, an exhibition catalog from The Metropolitan Museum of Art (fully available online as PDF), which contains many representations of Baku Chinese legendary creatures Japanese legendary creatures Legendary mammals Mythological hybrids Fictional tapirs Sleep in mythology and folklore
Bugzilla is a web-based general-purpose bug tracking system and testing tool originally developed and used by the Mozilla project, and licensed under the Mozilla Public License. Released as open-source software by Netscape Communications in 1998, it has been adopted by a variety of organizations for use as a bug tracking system for both free and open-source software and proprietary projects and products. Bugzilla is used, among others, by the Mozilla Foundation, WebKit, Linux kernel, FreeBSD, KDE, Apache, Eclipse and LibreOffice. Red Hat uses it, but is gradually migrating its product to use Jira. It is also self-hosting. History Bugzilla was originally devised by Terry Weissman in 1998 for the nascent Mozilla.org project, as an open source application to replace the in-house system then in use at Netscape Communications for tracking defects in the Netscape Communicator suite. Bugzilla was originally written in Tcl, but Weissman decided to port it to Perl before its release as part of Netscape's early open-source code drops, in the hope that more people would be able to contribute to it, given that Perl seemed to be a more popular language at the time. Bugzilla 2.0 was the result of that port to Perl, and the first version was released to the public via anonymous CVS. In April 2000, Weissman handed over control of the Bugzilla project to Tara Hernandez. Under her leadership, some of the regular contributors were coerced into taking more responsibility, and Bugzilla development became more community-driven. In July 2001, facing distraction from her other responsibilities in Netscape, Hernandez handed control to Dave Miller, who was still in charge . Bugzilla 3.0 was released on May 10, 2007 and brought a refreshed UI, an XML-RPC interface, custom fields and resolutions, mod_perl support, shared saved searches, and improved UTF-8 support, along with other changes. Bugzilla 4.0 was released on February 15, 2011 and Bugzilla 5.0 was released in July 2015. Timeline Bugzilla's release timeline: Requirements Bugzilla's system requirements include: A compatible database management system A suitable release of Perl 5 An assortment of Perl modules A compatible web server A suitable mail transfer agent, or any SMTP server Currently supported database systems are MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, and SQLite. Bugzilla is usually installed on Linux using the Apache HTTP Server, but any web server that supports CGI such as Lighttpd, Hiawatha, Cherokee can be used. Bugzilla's installation process is command line driven and runs through a series of stages where system requirements and software capabilities are checked. Design While the potential exists in the code to turn Bugzilla into a technical support ticket system, task management tool, or project management tool, Bugzilla's developers have chosen to focus on the task of designing a system to track software defects. Zarro Boogs Bugzilla returns the string "zarro boogs found" instead of "0 bugs found" when a search for bugs returns no results. "Zarro Boogs" is intended as a 'buggy' statement itself (a misspelling of "zero bugs") and is thus a meta-statement about the nature of software debugging, implying that even when no bugs have been identified, some may exist. The following comment is provided in the Bugzilla source code to developers who may be confused by this behaviour: Zarro Boogs Found This is just a goofy way of saying that there were no bugs found matching your query. When asked to explain this message, Terry Weissman (an early Bugzilla developer) had the following to say: I've been asked to explain this ... way back when, when Netscape released version 4.0 of its browser, we had a release party. Naturally, there had been a big push to try and fix every known bug before the release. Naturally, that hadn't actually happened. (This is not unique to Netscape or to 4.0; the same thing has happened with every software project I've ever seen.) Anyway, at the release party, T-shirts were handed out that said something like "Netscape 4.0: Zarro Boogs". Just like the software, the T-shirt had no known bugs. Uh-huh. So, when you query for a list of bugs, and it gets no results, you can think of this as a friendly reminder. Of *course* there are bugs matching your query, they just aren't in the bugsystem yet... — Terry Weissman From The Bugzilla Guide – 2.16.10 Release: Glossary WONTFIX WONTFIX is used as a label on issues in Bugzilla and other systems. It indicates that a verified issue will not be addressed for one of several possible reasons including fixing would be too expensive, complicated or risky. See also Comparison of issue-tracking systems List of computing mascots :Category:Computing mascots References External links Articles which contain graphical timelines Bug and issue tracking software Cross-platform free software Free project management software Free software programmed in Perl Mozilla Software using the Mozilla license
Bangor or City of Bangor may refer to: Places Australia Bangor, New South Wales Bangor, Tasmania Canada Bangor, Nova Scotia Bangor, Saskatchewan Bangor, Prince Edward Island United Kingdom Northern Ireland Bangor, County Down Bangor railway station (Northern Ireland) Bangor (Northern Ireland Parliament constituency), Bangor's former constituency in the Parliament of Northern Ireland Bangor (Parliament of Ireland constituency), Bangor's former constituency in the Parliament of Ireland Bangor (civil parish) Wales Bangor, Gwynedd Bangor railway station (Wales) Bangor-on-Dee ( or ), Wrexham Bangor Teifi, Ceredigion Capel Bangor, Ceredigion United States Bangor, Alabama Bangor, California Bangor, Iowa Bangor, Maine Bangor Air National Guard Base Bangor International Airport Bangor, Michigan Bangor (Amtrak station) Bangor Township, Van Buren County, Michigan Bangor Township, Bay County, Michigan Bangor, New York Bangor, Pennsylvania Bangor Base, Washington Bangor, Wisconsin, a village Bangor (town), Wisconsin Bangor Township (disambiguation) Elsewhere Bangor Erris, County Mayo, Ireland Bangor, Morbihan, Britanny, France Arts, entertainment, and media Bangor Daily News, Bangor, Maine, US Bangor FM, County Down Sports Bangor City F.C., a football club in Bangor, Gwynedd Bangor 1876 F.C., a football club in Bangor, Gwynedd Bangor F.C., a football club in Bangor, County Down Bangor RFC, rugby union team of Bangor, Gwynedd, Wales Transportation Bangor and Aroostook Railroad, Maine, US Bangor International Airport, Maine, US Bangor railway station (Northern Ireland) Bangor railway station (Wales) Bangor station (Michigan), US , a Great Lakes shipwreck City of Bangor, a US airline with the ICAO code XBG; see Airline codes-C Other uses Bangor Cathedral, Bangor, Gwynedd, Wales Bangor University, Bangor, Gwynedd, Wales Bishop of Bangor, Bangor, Gwynedd, Wales See also Bagnor, a hamlet in England Banger (disambiguation) Bangor City Council, Gwynedd, Wales Bangor City Forest, Maine, US Bangor Mall, Maine, US Bangor Mountain, Gwynedd, Wales The Bangor Aye, an independent online news service for Gwynedd, Wales The Beatles in Bangor, the 1967 attendance by the band The Beatles at a transcendental meditation seminar in Bangor, Wales
A braille embosser is an impact printer that renders text as tactile braille cells. Using braille translation software, a document or digital text can be embossed with relative ease. This makes braille production efficient and cost-effective. Braille translation software may be free and open-sourced or paid. Blind users tend to call other printers "ink printers," to distinguish them from their braille counterparts. This is often the case regardless of the type of printer being discussed (e.g., thermal printers being called "ink printers" even though they use no ink). As with ink printers and presses, embossers range from those intended for consumers to those used by large publishers. The price of embossers increase with the volume of braille it produces . Types The fastest industrial braille embosser is probably the $92,000 Belgian-made NV Interpoint 55, first produced in 1991, which uses a separate air compressor to drive the embossing head and can output up to 800 braille characters per second. Adoption was slow at first; in 2000 the National Federation of the Blind said there were only three of these in the US, one owned by the NFB itself and the other two by the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society. As of 2008, there are more than 60 in use across the world. Smaller desktop braille embossers are more common and can be found in libraries, universities, and specialist education centers, as well as being privately owned by blind individuals. It may be necessary to use an acoustic cabinet or hood to dampen the noise level. Braille embossers usually need special braille paper which is thicker and more expensive than normal paper. Some high-end embossers are capable of printing on normal paper. Embossers can be either one-sided or two-sided. Two-sided embossing requires lining up the dots so they do not overlap (called "interpoint" because the points on the other side are placed in between the points on the first side). Two-sided embossing uses less paper and reduces the size of the output. Once one copy of a document has been produced, printing further copies is often quicker by means of a device called a thermoform, which produces copies on soft plastic. However, the resulting braille is not as easily readable as braille that has been freshly embossed, in much the same way that a poor-quality photocopy is not as readable as the original. Hence large publishers do not generally use thermoforms. Some embossers can produce "dotty Moon", i.e., Moon type shapes formed by dots. See also Braigo Mountbatten Brailler Book E-book Braille e-book Braille translator References Embosser
Basic Role-Playing (BRP) is a tabletop role-playing game which originated in the RuneQuest fantasy role-playing game. Chaosium released the BRP standalone booklet in 1980 in the boxed set release of the second edition of RuneQuest. Greg Stafford and Lynn Willis are credited as the authors. Chaosium used the percentile skill-based system as the basis for most of their games, including Call of Cthulhu, Stormbringer, and Elfquest. History The core rules were originally written by Steve Perrin as part of his game RuneQuest. It was Greg Stafford's idea to simplify the rules (eliminating such things as Strike Ranks and Hit Locations) and issue them in a 16-page booklet called Basic Role-Playing. Over the years several others, including Sandy Petersen, Lynn Willis, and Steve Henderson, contributed to the system. The BRP was notable for being the first role-playing game system to introduce a full skill system to characters regardless of their profession. This was developed in RuneQuest but was also later adopted by the more skill-oriented Call of Cthulhu. BRP was conceived of as a generic system for playing any sort of RPG. Specific rule systems to support differing genres can be added to the core rules in a modular design. In order to underscore this, in 1982 Chaosium released the Worlds of Wonder box set, which contained a revised main booklet and several booklets providing the additional rules for playing in specific genres. Superworld, a superhero-themed game, began as a portion of the Worlds of Wonder set. In 2002, a third edition of the core booklet, now titled Basic Roleplaying: The Chaosium System, was released in 2002. In 2004, Chaosium published the Basic Roleplaying monographs, a series of paperback booklets. The first four monographs (Players Book, Magic Book, Creatures Book, and Gamemaster Book) were essentially RuneQuest 3rd Edition, but with the RuneQuest name and other trademarks removed, as Chaosium had lost the rights to the name but retained copyright of the rules text. Additional monographs allowing for new mechanics, thereby extending the system to other genres, were released in the following years. Many of these monographs reproduced rules from other Chaosium-published BRP games that had gone out of print. In 2008, Jason Durall and Sam Johnson brought together all of the previous works and updated them to a new edition. This comprehensive book, Basic Roleplaying: The Chaosium System, was nicknamed the "Big Gold Book", and allowed game masters to essentially build their own game from the various subsystems included. A quickstart booklet for new players accompanied it. In 2011 it was then updated to a second edition. In 2020, Chaosium released Basic Roleplaying as a System Reference Document (SRD). Other games published over the years by Chaosium using the BRP ruleset include Ringworld, Hawkmoon, and Nephilim. Rules system BRP is similar to other generic systems such as GURPS, Hero System, or Savage Worlds in that it uses a simple resolution method which can be broadly applied. BRP uses a core set of seven characteristics: Size, Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, Intelligence, Power, and Appearance or Charisma. From those, a character derives scores in various skills, expressed as percentages. These skill scores are the basis of play. When attempting an action, the player rolls percentile dice trying to get a result equal to or lower than the character's current skill score. Each incarnation of the BRP rules has changed or added to the core ideas and mechanics, so that games are not identical. For example, in Call of Cthulhu, skills may never be over 100%, while in Stormbringer skills in excess of 100% are within reach for all characters. Scores can increase through experience checks, the mechanics of which vary in an individual game. BRP treats armor and defense as separate functions: the act of parrying is a defensive skill that reduces an opponent's chance to successfully land an attack, and the purpose of armor is to absorb damage. The last major element of many BRP games is that there is no difference between the player character race systems and that of the monster or opponents. By varying ability scores, the same system is used for a human hero as a troll villain. This approach allows for players to play a wide variety of non-human species. Licensed games Chaosium was an early adopter of licensing out its BRP system to other companies, something that was unique at the time they began but commonplace now thanks to the d20 licenses. This places BRP in the notable position of being one of the first products to allow other game companies to develop games or game aids for their work. For example, Other Suns, published by Fantasy Games Unlimited (FGU), used them under license. BRP was also used as the base for the Swedish game Drakar och Demoner from Target Games. Reception In the July 1981 edition of The Space Gamer (Issue No. 41), Ronald Pehr commented that "Basic Role-Playing is too little too late. RuneQuest is long established, does an adequate job of teaching role-playing, and there are now even more games to choose from. If you want to teach role-playing to a very young, but literate, child, Basic Role-Playing is excellent. Otherwise, for all its charm, it's not much use.". In the August 1981 edition of Dragon (Issue 52), John Sapienza noted that Basic Roleplaying was "not a fantasy role-playing game as such, but a handbook on how to role-play and a simple combat system to help the beginner get into the act." Despite this, Sapienza called it "one of the best introductions to the practical social interactions in gaming that I have read, and will give beginning gamers the kind of guidance they typically do not get in the full-scale games they will graduate to, since game writers usually spend their time on mechanics instead of on the proper relationships between player and player, player and referee, or player and character." He concluded, "Basic Role-Playing is a truly universal introduction to the hobby — highly recommended." Awards The BRP itself has been the recipient, via its games, of many awards. Most notable was the 1981 Origins Award for Best Roleplaying Rules for Call of Cthulhu. Other editions of Call of Cthulhu have also won Origins Awards including the Hall of Fame award. The BRP Character Generation software has also won awards for its design. References External links Chaosium's Basic Role-Playing Product Line Page Basic Roleplaying Central - The community fansite for Basic Roleplaying game systems. Chaosium games Greg Stafford games Role-playing games introduced in 1980 Universal role-playing games
Wireless broadband is a telecommunications technology that provides high-speed wireless Internet access or computer networking access over a wide area. The term encompasses both fixed and mobile broadband. The term broadband Originally the word "broadband" had a technical meaning, but became a marketing term for any kind of relatively high-speed computer network or Internet access technology. According to the 802.16-2004 standard, broadband means "having instantaneous bandwidths greater than 1 MHz and supporting data rates greater than about 1.5 Mbit/s." The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) recently re-defined the definition to mean download speeds of at least 25 Mbit/s and upload speeds of at least 3 Mbit/s. Technology and speeds A wireless broadband network is an outdoor fixed and/or mobile wireless network providing point-to-multipoint or point-to-point terrestrial wireless links for broadband services. Wireless networks can feature data rates exceeding 1 Gbit/s. Many fixed wireless networks are exclusively half-duplex (HDX), however, some licensed and unlicensed systems can also operate at full-duplex (FDX) allowing communication in both directions simultaneously. Outdoor fixed wireless broadband networks commonly utilize a priority TDMA based protocol in order to divide communication into timeslots. This timeslot technique eliminates many of the issues common to 802.11 Wi-Fi protocol in outdoor networks such as the hidden node problem. Few wireless Internet service providers (WISPs) provide download speeds of over 100 Mbit/s; most broadband wireless access (BWA) services are estimated to have a range of from a tower. Technologies used include Local Multipoint Distribution Service (LMDS) and Multichannel Multipoint Distribution Service (MMDS), as well as heavy use of the industrial, scientific and medical (ISM) radio bands and one particular access technology was standardized by IEEE 802.16, with products known as WiMAX. WiMAX is highly popular in Europe but has not met full acceptance in the United States because cost of deployment does not meet return on investment figures. In 2005 the Federal Communications Commission adopted a Report and Order that revised the FCC's rules to open the 3650 MHz band for terrestrial wireless broadband operations. Another system that is popular with cable internet service providers uses point-to-multipoint wireless links that extend the existing wired network using a transparent radio connection. This allows the same DOCSIS modems to be used for both wired and wireless customers. Development of Wireless Broadband in the United States On November 14, 2007 the Commission released Public Notice DA 07–4605 in which the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau announced the start date for licensing and registration process for the 3650–3700 MHz band. In 2010 the FCC adopted the TV White Space Rules (TVWS) and allowed some of the better no line of sight frequency (700 MHz) into the FCC Part-15 Rules. The Wireless Internet Service Providers Association, a national association of WISPs, petitioned the FCC and won. Initially, WISPs were only found in rural areas not covered by cable or DSL. These early WISPs would employ a high-capacity T-carrier, such as a T1 or DS3 connection, and then broadcast the signal from a high elevation, such as at the top of a water tower. To receive this type of Internet connection, consumers mount a small dish to the roof of their home or office and point it to the transmitter. Line of sight is usually necessary for WISPs operating in the 2.4 and 5 GHz bands with 900 MHz offering better NLOS (non-line-of-sight) performance. Residential Wireless Internet Providers of fixed wireless broadband services typically provide equipment to customers and install a small antenna or dish somewhere on the roof. This equipment is usually deployed as a service and maintained by the company providing that service. Fixed wireless services have become particularly popular in many rural areas where cable, DSL or other typical home internet services are not available. Business Wireless Internet Many companies in the US and worldwide have started using wireless alternatives to incumbent and local providers for internet and voice service. These providers tend to offer competitive services and options in areas where there is a difficulty getting affordable Ethernet connections from terrestrial providers such as ATT, Comcast, Verizon and others. Also, companies looking for full diversity between carriers for critical uptime requirements may seek wireless alternatives to local options. Demand for spectrum To cope with increased demand for wireless broadband, increased spectrum would be needed. Studies began in 2009, and while some unused spectrum was available, it appeared broadcasters would have to give up at least some spectrum. This led to strong objections from the broadcasting community. In 2013, auctions were planned, and for now any action by broadcasters is voluntary. Mobile wireless broadband Called mobile broadband, wireless broadband technologies include services from mobile phone service providers such as Verizon Wireless, Sprint Corporation, and AT&T Mobility, and T-Mobile which allow a more mobile version of Internet access. Consumers can purchase a PC card, laptop card, USB equipment, or mobile broadband modem, to connect their PC or laptop to the Internet via cell phone towers. This type of connection would be stable in almost any area that could also receive a strong cell phone connection. These connections can cost more for portable convenience as well as having speed limitations in all but urban environments. On June 2, 2010, after months of discussion, AT&T became the first wireless Internet provider in the US to announce plans to charge according to usage. As the only iPhone service in the United States, AT&T experienced the problem of heavy Internet use more than other providers. About 3 percent of AT&T smart phone customers account for 40 percent of the technology's use. 98 percent of the company's customers use less than 2 gigabytes (4000 page views, 10,000 emails or 200 minutes of streaming video), the limit under the $25 monthly plan, and 65 percent use less than 200 megabytes, the limit for the $15 plan. For each gigabyte in excess of the limit, customers would be charged $10 a month starting June 7, 2010, though existing customers would not be required to change from the $30 a month unlimited service plan. The new plan would become a requirement for those upgrading to the new iPhone technology later in the summer. Licensing A wireless connection can be either licensed or unlicensed. In the US, licensed connections use a private spectrum the user has secured rights to from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). The unlicensed mobile wireless broadband, in US operates on CBRS Which has three tiers. Tier 1 – Incumbent Access, reserved for US Federals Government, Tier 2 – Priority Access, a paid access with priority on the spectrum, Tier 3 – General Authorized Access (GAA), a shared spectrum. In other countries, spectrum is licensed from the country's national radio communications authority (such as the ACMA in Australia or Nigerian Communications Commission in Nigeria (NCC)). Licensing is usually expensive and often reserved for large companies who wish to guarantee private access to spectrum for use in point to point communication. Because of this, most wireless ISP's use unlicensed spectrum which is publicly shared. See also Clearwire CorDECT HIPERMAN Skyriver, provider in California WiBro, provider in South Korea iBurst 802.20 Connect card Policies promoting wireless broadband References External links Wireless Internet Service Provider Association Wireless Internet Service Provider Ontario Wireless networking Broadband
The Booch method is a method for object-oriented software development. It is composed of an object modeling language, an iterative object-oriented development process, and a set of recommended practices. The method was authored by Grady Booch when he was working for Rational Software (acquired by IBM), published in 1992 and revised in 1994. It was widely used in software engineering for object-oriented analysis and design and benefited from ample documentation and support tools. The notation aspect of the Booch methodology was superseded by the Unified Modeling Language (UML), which features graphical elements from the Booch method along with elements from the object-modeling technique (OMT) and object-oriented software engineering (OOSE). Methodological aspects of the Booch method have been incorporated into several methodologies and processes, the primary such methodology being the Rational Unified Process (RUP). Content of the method The Booch notation is characterized by cloud shapes to represent classes and distinguishes the following diagrams: The process is organized around a macro and a micro process. The macro process identifies the following activities cycle: Conceptualization : establish core requirements Analysis : develop a model of the desired behavior Design : create an architecture Evolution: for the implementation Maintenance : for evolution after the delivery The micro process is applied to new classes, structures or behaviors that emerge during the macro process. It is made of the following cycle: Identification of classes and objects Identification of their semantics Identification of their relationships Specification of their interfaces and implementation References External links Class diagrams, Object diagrams, State Event diagrams and Module diagrams. The Booch Method of Object-Oriented Analysis & Design Software design Object-oriented programming Programming principles de:Grady Booch#Booch-Notation
Burgundian can refer to any of the following: Someone or something from Burgundy. Burgundians, an East Germanic tribe, who first appear in history in South East Europe. Later Burgundians colonised the area of Gaul that is now known as Burgundy (French Bourgogne) The Old Burgundian language (Germanic), an East Germanic language spoken by the Burgundians The Modern Burgundian language (Oïl), an Oïl language also known as spoken in the region of Burgundy, France. Frainc-Comtou dialect, sometimes regarded as part of the Burgundian group of languages Burgundian (party), a political faction in early 15th century during the Hundred Years' War See also Burgundian War (disambiguation) Language and nationality disambiguation pages
The Break key (or the symbol ⎉) of a computer keyboard refers to breaking a telegraph circuit and originated with 19th century practice. In modern usage, the key has no well-defined purpose, but while this is the case, it can be used by software for miscellaneous tasks, such as to switch between multiple login sessions, to terminate a program, or to interrupt a modem connection. Because the break function is usually combined with the pause function on one key since the introduction of the IBM Model M 101-key keyboard in 1985, the Break key is also called the Pause key. It can be used to pause some computer games. History A standard telegraph circuit connects all the keys, sounders and batteries in a single series loop. Thus the sounders actuate only when both keys are down (closed, also known as "marking" — after the ink marks made on paper tape by early printing telegraphs). So the receiving operator has to hold their key down or close a built-in shorting switch in order to let the other operator send. As a consequence, the receiving operator could interrupt the sending operator by opening their key, breaking the circuit and forcing it into a "spacing" condition. Both sounders stop responding to the sender's keying, alerting the sender. (A physical break in the telegraph line would have the same effect.) The teleprinter operated in a very similar fashion except that the sending station kept the loop closed (logic 1, or "marking") even during short pauses between characters. Holding down a special "break" key opened the loop, forcing it into a continuous logic 0, or "spacing", condition. When this occurred, the teleprinter mechanisms continually actuated without printing anything, as the all-0s character is the non-printing NUL in both Baudot and ASCII. The resulting noise got the sending operator's attention. This practice carried over to teleprinter use on time-sharing computers. A continuous spacing (logical 0) condition violates the rule that every valid character has to end with one or more logic 1 (marking) "stop" bits. The computer (specifically the UART) recognized this as a special "break" condition and generated an interrupt that typically stopped a running program or forced the operating system to prompt for a login. Although asynchronous serial telegraphy is now rare, the key once used with terminal emulators can still be used by software for similar purposes. Sinclair On the ZX80 and ZX81 computers, the Break is accessed by pressing . On the ZX Spectrum it is accessed by . The Spectrum+ and later computers have a dedicated key. It does not trigger an interrupt but will halt any running BASIC program, or terminate the loading or saving of data to cassette tape. An interrupted BASIC program can usually be resumed with the CONTINUE command. The Sinclair QL computer, without a key, maps the function to . BBC Micro On a BBC Micro computer, the key generates a hardware reset which would normally cause a warm restart of the computer. A cold restart is triggered by pressing . If a filing system is installed, will cause the computer to search for and load or run a file called !Boot on the filing system's default device (e.g. floppy disk 0, network user BOOT). The latter two behaviours were inherited by the successor to Acorn MOS, RISC OS. These behaviours could be changed or exchanged in software, and were often used in rudimentary anti-piracy techniques. Because of the BBC Micro's near universal usage in British schools, later versions of the machine incorporated a physical lock on the Break key to stop children from intentionally resetting the computer. Modern keyboards On many modern PCs, interrupts screen output by BIOS until another key is pressed. This is effective during boot in text mode and in a DOS box in Windows safe mode with 50 lines. On early keyboards without a key (before the introduction of 101/102-key keyboards) the Pause function was assigned to , and the Break function to ; these key-combinations still work with most programs, even on modern PCs with modern keyboards. Pressing the dedicated key on 101/102-key keyboards sends the same scancodes as pressing , then , then releasing them in the reverse order would do; additionally, an E1hex prefix is sent, which enables 101/102-key-aware software to discern the two situations, while older software usually just ignores the prefix. The key is different from all other keys in that it sends no scancodes at all on release in PS/2 modes 1 or 2, so it is impossible to determine whether this key is being held down with older devices. In PS/2 mode 3 or USB HID mode, there is a release scancode, so it is possible to determine whether this key is being held down on modern computers. On modern keyboards, the key is usually labeled Pause with Break below, sometimes separated by a line: , or Pause on the top of the keycap and Break on the front, or only Pause without Break at all. In most Windows environments, the key combination brings up the system properties. Keyboards without Break key Compact and notebook keyboards often do not have a dedicated key. Substitutes for : or or on certain Lenovo laptops. or on certain Dell laptops. on some other Dell laptops. on Samsung. on certain HP laptops. on certain HP laptops. on certain Logitech (LOGI) keyboards. Substitutes for : or or on certain Lenovo laptops. on certain Dell laptops. on certain HP laptops. on certain HP laptops. For some Dell laptops, without a key, press the and select "Interrupt". Usage for breaking the program's execution While both and combination are commonly implemented as a way of breaking the execution of a console application, they are also used for similar effect in integrated development environments. Although these two are often considered interchangeable, compilers and execution environments usually assign different signals to these. Additionally, in some kernels (e.g. miscellaneous DOS variants) is detected only at the time OS tries reading from a keyboard buffer and only if it's the only key sequence in the buffer, while is often translated instantly (e.g. by INT 1Bh under DOS). Because of this, is usually a more effective choice under these operating systems; sensitivity for these two combinations can be enhanced by the BREAK=ON CONFIG.SYS statement. See also System request Scroll lock Num lock References External links Computer keys Out-of-band management
Blot may refer to: Surname Guillaume Blot (born 1985), French racing cyclist Harold W. Blot (born 1938), served as United States Deputy Chief of Staff for Aviation Jean-François Joseph Blot (1781–1857), French soldier and politician Yvan Blot (1948–2018), French conservative political figure, founder and president of the Club de l'Horloge Jean Blot (1923–2019), French writer, translator, and senior civil servant of Russian origin (born 1983), French judoka Other Blot (biology), method of transferring proteins, DNA, RNA or a protein onto a carrier Blót, a sacrifice to the gods or other beings in Germanic paganism and modern Germanic paganism Blot (album), a 2003 album by Einherjer, referring to the Germanic practice The Blot, a 1921 silent film Another name of a trick-taking card game Belot Blot (Transformers), a character from the Transformers franchise Ink blots, as used in the Rorschach test Blot (1994 film), a 1994 film See also "Hefja Blot", a song by Danheim for his album Friðr "Blotjarl", a song by Danheim and Heldom for his album Skapanir "Vetrnátta Blot", a song by Danheim and Heldom for his album Skapanir Phantom Blot, a character made by the Walt Disney Company Saint-Rémy-de-Blot, commune in the Puy-de-Dôme department in Auvergne in central France The Blot on the Shield, 1915 short film directed by B. Reeves Eason Blott (disambiguation)
Bill Holbrook (born 1958) is an American cartoonist and webcomic writer and artist, best known for his syndicated comic strip On the Fastrack. Born in Los Angeles, Holbrook grew up in Huntsville, Alabama, and began drawing at an early age. While majoring in illustration and visual design at Auburn University, Holbrook served as art director of the student newspaper, doing editorial cartoons and a weekly comic strip. At the same time, his work was being published in the Huntsville Times and the Monroe Journal. After graduation in 1980, he joined the Atlanta Constitution as an editorial staff artist. During a 1982 visit to relatives on the West Coast, Holbrook met Peanuts creator, Charles Schulz. Following his advice and encouragement, Holbrook created a strip in the fall of that year about a college graduate working in a rundown diner. It did not stir syndicate interest, but what he learned on the strip helped him when he created On the Fastrack. Eleven days before On the Fastrack made its syndicated debut (March 19, 1984), Holbrook met Teri Peitso on a blind date. They were married on Pearl Harbor Day, 1985. They have two daughters, Chandler and Haviland. Peitso-Holbrook's novels have been nominated for both Edgar Awards and Agatha Awards. She is currently an assistant professor in literacy education at Georgia State University. The family lives in the Atlanta area. On October 3, 1988, Holbrook began his second strip, Safe Havens, and his third strip, Kevin and Kell was launched in September 1995. Comic strips Every week Holbrook writes the story line for the next three weeks for one of his strips and draws the next three weeks' worth of strips for another. In 2010, characters from On the Fastrack and Safe Havens began appearing in both strips. On the Fastrack - About the misadventures at Fastrack, Inc., On the Fastrack has been distributed by King Features Syndicate since 1984. It now appears in 75 newspapers nationwide. Safe Havens - Initially about a day care center, this strip evolved into the adventures of Samantha Argus and her friends and is now syndicated nationally to over 50 newspapers. Kevin and Kell - Originally an online-only strip but was also published in the Atlanta Journal-Constitution for some years, Kevin and Kell centers on the mixed marriage between a rabbit, Kevin and a grey wolf, Kell Dewclaw. The plot revolves around species-related humor, satire, and interpersonal conflict. Duel In The Somme - Holbrook illustrated a story by Ben Bova and Rob Balder in this strip about a romantic rivalry between a computer-simulation designer and his boss. References External links 1958 births American comic strip cartoonists American webcomic creators Artists from Los Angeles Artists from Alabama Auburn University alumni Living people Writers from Huntsville, Alabama
Baron Aberdare, of Duffryn in the County of Glamorgan, is a title in the Peerage of the United Kingdom. It was created on 23 August 1873 for the Liberal politician Henry Bruce. He served as Home Secretary from 1868 to 1873. His grandson, the third Baron, was a soldier, cricketer and tennis player and a member of the International Olympic Committee. His son, the fourth Baron, held office in the Conservative administration of Edward Heath and was later a Deputy Speaker of the House of Lords. Lord Aberdare was one of the ninety-two elected hereditary peers that were allowed to remain in the House of Lords after the passing of the House of Lords Act 1999. the title is held by his son, the fifth Baron, who succeeded in 2005 and was elected to the House of Lords in 2009. Coat of arms The heraldic blazon for the coat of arms of the family is: Or, a saltire gules, on a chief of the last a martlet of the field. Baron Aberdare (1873) Henry Austin Bruce, 1st Baron Aberdare (1815–1895) Henry Campbell Bruce, 2nd Baron Aberdare (1851–1929) Clarence Napier Bruce, 3rd Baron Aberdare (1885–1957) Morys George Lyndhurst Bruce, 4th Baron Aberdare (1919–2005) Alastair John Lyndhurst Bruce, 5th Baron Aberdare (born 1947) The heir apparent is the present holder's son, Hector Morys Napier Bruce (born 1974). Male-line family tree References Bibliography Baronies in the Peerage of the United Kingdom Noble titles created in 1873 Noble titles created for UK MPs Barons Aberdare
Balboa may refer to: Boats Balboa 16, an American sailboat design Balboa 20, an American sailboat design Balboa 21, an American sailboat design Balboa 22, an American sailboat design Balboa 23, an American sailboat design Balboa 24, an American sailboat design Places Balboa, Cauca, a town and municipality in Colombia Balboa, León, a Spanish village and municipality Balboa, Panama, a port city in Panama Balboa District of Panamá Province in Panama Balboa, Risaralda, a town and municipality in Colombia Balboa (Los Angeles Metro station), on the Los Angeles Metro Orange Line Balboa (lunar crater), located near the western limb of the Moon Balboa High School (California), an American public high school of San Francisco, California Balboa Island, Newport Beach, California, a harborside community in Newport Beach Balboa Park (disambiguation), any of several Balboa Peninsula, Newport Beach, California, a neighborhood of the city of Newport Beach Naval Medical Center San Diego, a US Navy medical treatment facility informally known as "Balboa Hospital" People Vasco Núñez de Balboa ( 1475 – 1519), a Spanish explorer, governor, and conquistador Javier Balboa (born 1985), football midfielder Marcelo Balboa (born 1967), American former soccer defender Álex Balboa (born 2001), football midfielder Entertainment Balboa (dance), a close embrace style of swing dancing Balboa (band), a hardcore band from Philadelphia Balboa County, a fictional county setting for the Veronica Mars television series Rocky Balboa, protagonist of the Rocky film series Balboa, the merged tribe name in Survivor: Pearl Islands Balboa, a probe featured in Alien Planet Other uses Balboa (bug), a genus of dirt-colored seed bugs Balboa Line, a former train route in California, U.S. Panamanian balboa, the official currency of Panama See also Rocky Balboa (disambiguation)
Balsall Heath is an inner-city area of Birmingham, West Midlands, England. It has a diverse cultural mix of people and is the location of the Balti Triangle. History The name is first found as Bordeshale in 1275, which is derived from the Old English words Bord's healh meaning 'Bord's heath' or 'Bord's nook' implying a corner or small area of land, perhaps a sheltered hollow in the landscape, protected by trees, possibly within a river-bend. The name stems from the Anglian personal name of one Bord, who held property in the area, and in this way shares its origin with that of neighbouring Bordesley, first record as Bordesleie or Bordeslea meaning 'Bord's clearing'. Balsall Heath was largely agricultural and park land between Moseley village and the city of Birmingham until the 1850s when expansion along Moseley Road joined the two. The area was originally part of the Worcestershire parish of King's Norton, and was added to the county borough of Birmingham in Warwickshire on 1 October 1891. During negotiations in the previous year it had been promised a public baths and a free library. In 1895, the library was opened on Moseley Road and, in 1907, Balsall Heath Baths were opened in an adjoining building. In 1900, the city's College of Art was also opened on Moseley Road. By this time the small lake ("Lady Pool" on old maps) at the end of Ladypool Road had been filled in to create a park. Balsall Heath initially had a reasonably affluent population, which can still be seen in the dilapidated grandeur of some of the larger houses. A railway station on Brighton Road (on the Birmingham to Bristol line) led to further expansion, and the end of the 19th century saw a proliferation of high-density small terraced houses. A Muslim community was started in June 1940 when two Yemenis purchased an artisan cottage on Mary Street. With the mosque being located in the area, more Muslim immigrants began to move into private lodgings in Balsall Heath. Today, Balsall Heath has one of the largest Muslim communities in Birmingham. It is also home to diverse communities from across the Commonwealth. By the 1980s, many of Balsall Heath's houses were in a dilapidated condition; some still lacked bathrooms or indoor toilets. The local council considered demolishing these properties but chose to refurbish them as part of an urban renewal scheme. Most of these Victorian terraces still exist and, along with more modern social housing, characterise the area today. The area's traditional 'brick' pavements were replaced at this time by the more modern and conventional paving slabs. Balsall Heath's low rents also attracted a bohemian student population. Its proximity to the University of Birmingham, the city centre and the "trendy" area of Moseley were all contributing factors. There was little conflict between the students and locals despite their vastly differing lifestyles. However, a knife-incident in 1991 led to an article in Redbrick warning students not to live in the area. In July 2005, Balsall Heath was hit by a tornado, which devastated many buildings around Church Road and Ladypool Road. Birmingham City Council offered loans to those who would otherwise be unable to repair their properties, and the area has now made a full recovery. Red light era Street prostitution first appeared in Balsall Heath during the 1950s. Property values fell, attracting Birmingham's poorer migrants. By the 1970s, the area was notorious for street robberies and drug dealing. Cheddar Road was the centre of a red-light district worked by 450 women. About half of the 50 houses on this road had prostitutes advertising themselves in the windows, similar to Amsterdam. It was labelled Britain's busiest cul-de-sac. This period of the area's history is depicted in the 1980 film Prostitute. In 1986, an organisation called ANAWIM was formed by the Sisters of Charity to provide outreach support to the prostitutes. In September 1992, a report was published encouraging the formation of a zone of tolerance towards prostitution in Balsall Heath. This was opposed by residents and a local police inspector. In the following year Samo Paull, a woman working as a prostitute, was abducted from Balsall Heath and murdered. In 1994, residents began to organise street patrols forcing the prostitutes and street criminals out of the area. These patrols had the qualified support of the police but were regarded as vigilantes by some. There was an immediate two-thirds reduction in street and window prostitution. By November 1995, they had been almost eliminated. The area has enjoyed a slow revival. House prices are now similar to those in other inner-city areas, while the crime rate is among the lowest. Politics and governance Balsall Heath is divided by two wards for elections to Birmingham City Council; Balsall Heath West and Sparkbrook and Balsall Heath East. Balsall Heath is part of the Birmingham Hall Green constituency for general elections to the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. Notable buildings Moseley Road Baths Moseley School of Art St Barnabas' Church St Paul's Church Notable residents Donnaleigh Bailey, Michelle Corrigan in the Birmingham-based soap Doctors Alderman John Bowen, JP Percy Bullock, Worcestershire cricketer Howard R. Davies, racing motorcyclist Alan Deakin, former Aston Villa captain Oscar Deutsch, founder of the Odeon cinema chain David Edgar, playwright John Kenneally VC Don Maclean, comedian Conroy Maddox, surrealist artist William Mosedale, George Cross recipient Sir Robert Howson Pickard FRS stereochemist and vice-chancellor of the University of London 1937–1939 Anthony E. Pratt, inventor of the board game Cluedo UB40, a reggae band References V.M. Hart (1992) Balsall Heath: A History. Brewin Books Limited J. Moth (1951) The City of Birmingham Baths Department 1851 – 1951. External links Balsall Heath Local History Society About Balsall Heath Areas of Birmingham, West Midlands
Bunge & Born was a multinational corporation based in Buenos Aires, Argentina, whose diverse interests included food processing and international trade in grains and oilseeds. It is now known as Bunge Limited. History Bunge & Born was founded in 1884 by Ernesto Bunge, a German Argentine whose uncle, Carl Bunge, had been Consul General in Argentina for both the Netherlands and Prussia, and his brother-in-law, Jorge Born, who had recently arrived from Antwerp. The company superseded the Bunge Company founded in Amsterdam by Johann Bunge, in 1818. Following the purchase of of prime pampas wheat fields, Bunge & Born established Centenera, their first food processing plant, in 1899. They had one of the largest wheat mills in the country built on a Puerto Madero lot in 1902, and with it, established Molinos Río de la Plata (later a leader in the local retail foods market). The company started Argentina's first burlap bag manufacturer, following which they successfully lobbied government policy makers for protective tariffs on the then-critical commercial staple. They established a mortgage bank, the Banco Hipotecario Franco Argentino, and a subsidiary in Brazil in 1905, and by 1910, they reportedly controlled 80% of Argentine cereal exports (Argentina was, by then, the world's third-largest grain exporter).<ref>Rock, David. Argentina: 1516-1982. University of California Press, 1987. p.172</ref> They later established paint manufacturer Alba (1925), chemical and fertilizer maker Compañía Química, and textile maker Grafa (1932), among others; by the late 1920s, the company's annual export receipts alone reached US$300 million. The company inaugurated its neo-gothic Buenos Aires headquarters on Leandro Alem Avenue, designed by local architect Pablo Naeff, in 1926. Bunge & Born's near-monopoly on cereal and flour exports ended with populist President Juan Perón's 1946 establishment of the IAPI, a state agricultural purchasing and export agent. The company responded by extending its reach into the country fast-growing retail processed foods market, and though its prominence as the nation's chief exporter was partly restored by Perón's 1955 ousting and the IAPI's liquidation, its focus remained domestic over the next three decades. A privately held company, Bunge & Born did not release periodical financial statements, though it did report US$2bn in gross receipts in 1962; by then it had become a leader in commodity futures trading, operating 110 offices worldwide. The Bunge, Born, Hirsch, Engels and De La Tour families remained the company's chief stock-holders, and by extension, leaders in the domestic textile, paint, chemical, fertilizer, and food processing industries. On September 19, 1974, however, the consortium was shaken by the kidnapping of siblings Jorge and Juan Born by the far-left terrorist group, Montoneros. The Born brothers were kept in a known Argentine State Intelligence safehouse for nine months until their June 1975 release, something made possible without public suspicion of outside involvement by the agency's numerous contacts inside the Montoneros (including the leader, Mario Firmenich). Freed for a US$60 million ransom (the largest on record at that time), the ordeal triggered the company headquarters' relocation to São Paulo, Brazil, and contributed to the March 1976 coup. Retaining their Argentine interests (44 companies, by the 1980s), the families continued to suffer from ongoing disputes, and in 1987, CEO Mario Hirsch died suddenly. The election of Carlos Menem to the Argentine Presidency in May 1989, however, resulted in an agreement between the President-elect and Jorge Born that gave the company partial control over national economic policy. Bunge & Born provided the Menem government with its first two economy ministers, and the combination of large rate increases on public services (around 500%), a simplified exchange rate and a massive, mandatory wage hike led to a sharp economic turnaround between July and November 1989. This foray into government policy making, however, ended in a new currency crisis that December and the failure (compounded by the company's lackluster business performance) resulted in Born's 1991 ouster from the board; he was replaced by Chief Operations Officer Octavio Caraballo. Beset by the rift between Jorge Born and his brother, Juan, the prior unity between the shareholders disintegrated as Caraballo struggled to modernize the company. Family frictions intensified when Jorge Born formed a business partnership with one of his former kidnappers, erstwhile Montonero strategist Rodolfo Galimberti. Bunge International The company was converted into the Bermuda-registered Bunge International in 1994, retaining the Bunge y Born name only in Argentina. Bunge remained a privately held company of 180 shareholders (including the longtime controlling family interests) and divested itself in 1998, of almost all its retail foods interests in favor of a greater role in international agribusiness and commodity markets; by then the company's gross annual turnover had reached US$13 billion. Bunge ultimately went public on the NYSE in 2001, becoming Bunge Limited''. References Conglomerate companies established in 1884 1884 establishments in Argentina Conglomerate companies of Argentina
"The Big Apple" is a nickname for New York City. It was first popularized in the 1920s by John J. Fitz Gerald, a sportswriter for the New York Morning Telegraph. Its popularity since the 1970s is due in part to a promotional campaign by the New York tourist authorities. Origin Although the history of Big Apple was once thought a mystery, a clearer picture of the term's history has emerged due to the work of historian Barry Popik, and Gerald Cohen of the Missouri University of Science and Technology. A number of false theories had previously existed, including a claim that the term derived from a woman named Eve who ran a brothel in the city. This was subsequently exposed as a hoax. The earliest known usage of "big apple" appears in the book The Wayfarer in New York (1909), in which Edward Sandford Martin writes: Kansas is apt to see in New York a greedy city ... It inclines to think that the big apple gets a disproportionate share of the national sap. William Safire considered this the coinage, but because the phrase is not quoted in the text, it is likely that it was used as a metaphor, and not as a nickname for the city. Horse racing origin The Big Apple was popularized as a name for New York City by John J. Fitz Gerald in a number of horse-racing articles for the New York Morning Telegraph in the 1920s. The earliest of these was a casual reference on 3 May 1921: Fitz Gerald referred to the "big apple" frequently thereafter. He explained his use in a column dated February 18, 1924, under the headline "Around the Big Apple": Fitz Gerald reportedly first heard "The Big Apple" used to describe New York's racetracks by two African American stable hands at the New Orleans Fair Grounds. Using racing records, Popik traced that conversation to January 1920. In recognition of Fitz Gerald's role in promulgating "The Big Apple" as a nickname for New York City, in 1997 Mayor Rudy Giuliani signed legislation designating as "Big Apple Corner" the southwest corner of West 54th Street and Broadway, the corner on which John J. Fitz Gerald lived from 1934 to 1963. The Hotel Ameritania also once had a plaque which was installed in 1996, according to Popik, but it was removed during renovations to the building and was lost. Evidence can also be found in the Chicago Defender, an African-American newspaper that had a national circulation. Writing for the Defender on September 16, 1922, "Ragtime" Billy Tucker used the name "big apple" to refer to New York in a non-horse-racing context: Tucker had also earlier used "big apple" as a reference to Los Angeles. It is possible that he simply used "big apple" as a nickname for any large city: Popularity By the late 1920s, New York writers other than Fitz Gerald were starting to use "Big Apple", and were using it in contexts other than horse racing. "The Big Apple" was a popular song and dance in the 1930s. Jazz musicians in the 1930s also contributed to the use of the phrase to refer to New York City, specifically to the city and Harlem as the jazz capital of the world. Beside the song and the dance, two nightclubs in the city used "Big Apple" in their names. Walter Winchell and other writers continued to use the term in the 1940s and early 1950s, but by the late 1950s, if it was known at all, it had come to be considered an outdated nickname for New York. In the early 1970s, however, during the city's fiscal crisis, "People were looking around desperately and some of them seized that old phrase the Big Apple to remind people of when New York had been a strong and powerful city and might become that again," according to the official Manhattan Borough Historian, Dr. Robert Snyder. It was then that the New York Convention and Visitors Bureau – now NYC & Company, New York City's official marketing and tourism organization) – with the help of the Ogilvy & Mather advertising firm, began to promote the city's "Big Apple" nickname to tourists, under the leadership of its president, Charles Gillett. The campaign was a success, and the nickname has remained popular since then. Today the name is used exclusively to refer to New York City, and is used with regularity by journalists and news headline writers across the English-speaking world. In popular culture The term "big apple" was used by Frank Sinatra in conversation with opera singer Dorothy Kirsten on an episode of the NBC radio program Light Up Time on March 28, 1950. The Big Apple Circus was founded in Manhattan in 1977. The New York Mets baseball team have featured a "Home Run Apple" that rises whenever a Mets player hits a home run. It has become a symbol of the Mets baseball team, recognized throughout Major League Baseball as an iconic feature of the Mets' stadiums. It first appeared in Shea Stadium, and the original can still be seen on display at Citi Field, outside the Jackie Robinson Rotunda. Citi Field now uses a new apple, one that is much larger than original. Uses of the term abound elsewhere in the names of cultural products and events in or concerning New York, including the Big Apple Anime Fest, the Big Apple Circus, the Big Apple Theater Festival, Jess Teong's The Kid from the Big Apple and Kajagoogoo's Big Apple, and playful uses of the nickname have been seen, such as Patrick Downey's 2008 historical study of New York City's criminal underworld, entitled Bad Seeds in the Big Apple. Following his election as President of the United States in 2016, Donald Trump hosted a party named "The Big Apple Ball", which featured themed decorations and cut-outs of New York landmarks in honor of his home city. In his 1982 song "Human Nature", Michael Jackson refers to New York City by singing, "If this town is just an apple, then let me take a bite". In Anchorman 2: The Legend Continues, when asked why New York is called 'The Big Apple', Ron Burgundy says, "Because, there's an apple tree on every corner!" In Blue's Big City Adventure, Josh calls New York "The Big Apple" References External links The Big Apple Research on the term's history by Barry Popik Straight Dope article Culture of New York City Symbols of New York City Etymologies Slang American slang City fruit nicknames
Backpacking may refer to: Backpacking (travel), low-cost, independent, international travel Backpacking (hiking), trekking and camping overnight in the wilderness Ultralight backpacking, a style of wilderness backpacking with an emphasis on carrying as little as possible See also Hiking Backpacking with animals, using pack animals to carry gear while hiking or camping Backpacker (disambiguation) Backpack (disambiguation) Tramping (disambiguation), also called backpacking
Brahui ( ; ; also known as Brahvi or Brohi) is a Dravidian language spoken by some of the Brahui people. The language is spoken primarily in the central part of the Balochistan Province of Pakistan, with smaller communities of speakers scattered in parts of Iranian Baluchestan, Afghanistan, and Turkmenistan (around Merv) and by expatriate Brahui communities in Iraq, Qatar, and the United Arab Emirates. It is isolated from the nearest Dravidian-speaking neighbouring population of South India by a distance of more than . The Kalat, Khuzdar, Mastung, Quetta, Bolan, Nasirabad, Nushki, and Kharan districts of Balochistan Province are predominantly Brahui-speaking. Distribution Brahui is spoken in the central part of Pakistani Balochistan, mainly in Kalat, Khuzdar and Mastung districts, but also in smaller numbers in neighboring districts, as well as in Afghanistan which borders Pakistani Balochistan; however, many members of the ethnic group no longer speak Brahui. There are also a very small unknown number of expatriate Brahuis in the Arab States of the Persian Gulf, and Turkmenistan. History There is no consensus as to whether Brahui is a relatively recent language introduced into Balochistan or the remnant of a formerly more widespread Dravidian language family. According to Josef Elfenbein (1989), the most common theory is that the Brahui were part of a Dravidian migration into north-western India in the 3rd millennium BC, but unlike other Dravidians who migrated to the south, they remained in Sarawan and Jahlawan since before 2000 BC. However, some other scholars see it as a recent migrant language to its present region. They postulate that Brahui could only have migrated to Balochistan from central India after 1000 AD. This is contradicted by genetic evidence that shows the Brahui population to be indistinguishable from neighbouring Balochi speakers, and genetically distant from central Dravidian speakers. The main Iranian contributor to Brahui vocabulary, Balochi, is a Northwestern Iranian language, and moved to the area from the west only around 1000 AD. One scholar places the migration as late as the 13th or 14th century. The Brahui lexicon is believed to be of: 35% Perso-Arabic origin, 20% Balochi origin, 20% Indo-Aryan origin, 15% Dravidian origin, and 10% unknown origin. Franklin Southworth (2012) proposes that Brahui is not a Dravidian language, but can be linked with the remaining Dravidian languages and Elamite to form the "Zagrosian family," which originated in Southwest Asia (southern Iran) and was widely distributed in South Asia and parts of eastern West Asia before the Indo-Aryan migration. Dialects There are no important dialectal differences. Jhalawani (southern, centered on Khuzdar) and Sarawani (northern, centered on Kalat) dialects are distinguished by the pronunciation of *h, which is retained only in the north (Elfenbein 1997). Brahui has been influenced by the Iranian languages spoken in the area, including Persian, Balochi and Pashto. Phonology Brahui vowels show a partial length distinction between long and diphthongs and short . Brahui does not have short /e, o/ due to influence from neighbouring Indo-Aryan and Iranic languages, the PD short *e was replaced by a, ē and i, and ∗o by ō, u and a in root syllables. Brahui consonants show patterns of retroflexion but lack the aspiration distinctions found in surrounding languages and include several fricatives such as the voiceless lateral fricative , a sound not otherwise found in the region. Consonants are also very similar to those of Balochi, but Brahui has more fricatives and nasals (Elfenbein 1993). of north corresponds to a glottal stop of south initially and intervocalically. Before a C in word-final position it is lost. Non-phonemic glottal stop before word-initial vowels, e.g. hust (N), ʔust (S) 'heart'. and vary freely in many cases; contrast is limited to two or three items. Conditions for the emergence of are not clear. does not occur word-initially. → before in northern Brahui (Elfenbein 1998: 394), e.g. xūrt → xūṛt 'tiny'. The consonants freely alternate with aspirated counterparts in the northeast. Aspirated stops word-initially occur in loanwords in the south, where they freely vary with unaspirated stops. occurs before velar stops . Brahui preserves the PD laryngeal * as in some words e.g. PD. *caH- ~ *ceH- > Br. kah-. Stress Stress in Brahui follows a quantity-based pattern, occurring either on the first long vowel or diphthong, or on the first syllable if all vowels are short. Orthography Perso-Arabic script Brahui is the only Dravidian language which is not known to have been written in a Brahmi-based script; instead, it has been written in the Arabic script since the second half of the 20th century. In Pakistan, an Urdu based Nastaʿlīq script is used in writing: Latin script More recently, a Roman-based orthography named Brolikva (an abbreviation of Brahui Roman Likvar) was developed by the Brahui Language Board of the University of Balochistan in Quetta and adopted by the newspaper Talár. Below is the new promoted Bráhuí Báşágal Brolikva orthography: The letters with diacritics are the long vowels, post-alveolar and retroflex consonants, the voiced velar fricative and the voiceless lateral fricative. Sample text English All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood. Arabic script Latin script Muccá insáńk ájo o izzat ná rid aŧ barebar vadí massuno. Ofte puhí o dalíl raseńgáne. andáde ofte asi elo ton ílumí e vaddifoí e. Endangerment According to a 2009 UNESCO report, Brahui is one of the 27 languages of Pakistan that are facing the danger of extinction. It was classified as "unsafe", the least endangered level out of the five levels of concern (Unsafe, Definitely Endangered, Severely Endangered, Critically Endangered and Extinct). This status has since been renamed to "vulnerable". Publications Talár is the first daily newspaper in the Brahui language. It uses the new Roman orthography and is "an attempt to standardize and develop [the] Brahui language to meet the requirements of modern political, social and scientific discourse." References Sources Bray, Denys. The Brahui Language, an Old Dravidian Language Spoken in Parts of Baluchistan and Sind: Grammar. Gian Publishing House, 1986. External links Online Brahui Dictionary Handbook of the Birouhi language By Allâh Baksh (1877) Brahui Language Board Bráhuí Báşágal (Brahui Alphabet) Profile of the Brahui language Partial bibliography of scholarly works on Brahui Britannica Brahui language Brahui basic lexicon at the Global Lexicostatistical Database Agglutinative languages Dravidian languages Languages of Afghanistan Languages of Iran Languages of Iraq Languages of Turkmenistan Languages of Qatar Languages of Pakistan Languages of Balochistan, Pakistan Arabic alphabets for South Asian languages Vulnerable languages
Berkeley DB (BDB) is an unmaintained embedded database software library for key/value data, historically significant in open source software. Berkeley DB is written in C with API bindings for many other programming languages. BDB stores arbitrary key/data pairs as byte arrays, and supports multiple data items for a single key. Berkeley DB is not a relational database, although it has database features including database transactions, multiversion concurrency control and write-ahead logging. BDB runs on a wide variety of operating systems including most Unix-like and Windows systems, and real-time operating systems. BDB was commercially supported and developed by Sleepycat Software from 1996 to 2006. Sleepycat Software was acquired by Oracle Corporation in February 2006, who continued to develop and sell the C Berkeley DB library. In 2013 Oracle re-licensed BDB under the AGPL license. and released new versions until May 2020. Bloomberg LP continues to develop a fork of the 2013 version of BDB within their Comdb2 database, under the original Sleepycat permissive license. Origin Berkeley DB originated at the University of California, Berkeley as part of BSD, Berkeley's version of the Unix operating system. After 4.3BSD (1986), the BSD developers attempted to remove or replace all code originating in the original AT&T Unix from which BSD was derived. In doing so, they needed to rewrite the Unix database package. Seltzer and Yigit created a new database, unencumbered by any AT&T patents: an on-disk hash table that outperformed the existing dbm libraries. Berkeley DB itself was first released in 1991 and later included with 4.4BSD. In 1996 Netscape requested that the authors of Berkeley DB improve and extend the library, then at version 1.86, to suit Netscape's requirements for an LDAP server and for use in the Netscape browser. That request led to the creation of Sleepycat Software. This company was acquired by Oracle Corporation in February 2006. Berkeley DB 1.x releases focused on managing key/value data storage and are referred to as "Data Store" (DS). The 2.x releases added a locking system enabling concurrent access to data. This is what is known as "Concurrent Data Store" (CDS). The 3.x releases added a logging system for transactions and recovery, called "Transactional Data Store" (TDS). The 4.x releases added the ability to replicate log records and create a distributed highly available single-master multi-replica database. This is called the "High Availability" (HA) feature set. Berkeley DB's evolution has sometimes led to minor API changes or log format changes, but very rarely have database formats changed. Berkeley DB HA supports online upgrades from one version to the next by maintaining the ability to read and apply the prior release's log records. Starting with the 6.0.21 (Oracle 12c) release, all Berkeley DB products are licensed under the GNU AGPL. Previously, Berkeley DB was redistributed under the 4-clause BSD license (before version 2.0), and the Sleepycat Public License, which is an OSI-approved open-source license as well as an FSF-approved free software license. The product ships with complete source code, build script, test suite, and documentation. The comprehensive feature along with the licensing terms have led to its use in a multitude of free and open-source software. Those who do not wish to abide by the terms of the GNU AGPL, or use an older version with the Sleepycat Public License, have the option of purchasing another proprietary license for redistribution from Oracle Corporation. This technique is called dual licensing. Berkeley DB includes compatibility interfaces for some historic Unix database libraries: dbm, ndbm and hsearch (a System V and POSIX library for creating in-memory hash tables). Architecture Berkeley DB has an architecture notably simpler than relational database management systems. Like SQLite and LMDB, it is not based on a server/client model, and does not provide support for network access programs access the database using in-process API calls. Oracle added support for SQL in 11g R2 release based on the popular SQLite API by including a version of SQLite in Berkeley DB (it uses Berkeley DB for storage). A program accessing the database is free to decide how the data is to be stored in a record. Berkeley DB puts no constraints on the record's data. The record and its key can both be up to four gigabytes long. Berkeley DB supports database features such as ACID transactions, fine-grained locking, hot backups and replication. Oracle Corporation use of name "Berkeley DB" The name "Berkeley DB" is used by Oracle Corporation for three different products, only one of which is BDB: Berkeley DB, the C database library that is the subject of this article Berkeley DB Java Edition, a pure Java library whose design is modelled after the C library but is otherwise unrelated Berkeley DB XML, a C++ program that supports XQuery, and which includes a legacy version of the C database library Open source programs still using Berkeley DB BDB was once very widespread, but usage dropped steeply from 2013 (see licensing section). Notable software that still uses Berkeley DB for data storage include: Bogofilter – A free/open source spam filter that saves its wordlists using Berkeley DB by default Sendmail – A free/open source MTA first released in 1983 for Linux/Unix systems and no longer widely used Spamassassin – A free/open source anti-spam application The Elixir Cross Referencer – A web UI source code cross-referencer for C/C++ written in Python Open source operating systems, and languages such as Perl and Python still support old BerkelyDB interfaces. The FreeBSD and OpenBSD operating systems ship Berkeley DB 1.8x to support the dbopen() operating system call used by password programs such as pwb_mkdb. Linux operating systems including those based on Debian and Fedora ship Berkeley DB 5.3 libraries. Licensing Berkeley DB V2.0 and higher is available under a dual license: Oracle commercial license The GNU AGPL v3. Switching the open source license in 2013 from the Sleepycat license to the AGPL had a major effect on open source software. Since BDB is a library, any application linking to it must be under an AGPL-compatible license. Many open source applications and all closed source applications would need to be relicensed to become AGPL-compatible, which was not acceptable to many developers and open source operating systems. By 2013 there were many alternatives to BDB, and Debian Linux was typical in their decision to completely phase out Berkeley DB, with a preference for the Lightning Memory-Mapped Database (LMDB). References External links Oracle Berkeley DB Oracle Berkeley DB Downloads Oracle Berkeley DB Documentation Oracle Berkeley DB Licensing Information Licensing pitfalls for Oracle Technology Products Oracle Licensing Knowledge Net The Berkeley DB Book by Himanshu Yadava Database engines Database-related software for Linux Embedded databases Free database management systems Free software programmed in C Key-value databases NoSQL Oracle software Structured storage Software using the GNU AGPL license
In mathematics, Bernoulli's inequality (named after Jacob Bernoulli) is an inequality that approximates exponentiations of . It is often employed in real analysis. It has several useful variants: Integer exponent Case 1: for every integer and real number . The inequality is strict if and . Case 2: for every integer and every real number . Case 3: for every even integer and every real number . Real exponent for every real number and . The inequality is strict if and . for every real number and . History Jacob Bernoulli first published the inequality in his treatise "Positiones Arithmeticae de Seriebus Infinitis" (Basel, 1689), where he used the inequality often. According to Joseph E. Hofmann, Über die Exercitatio Geometrica des M. A. Ricci (1963), p. 177, the inequality is actually due to Sluse in his Mesolabum (1668 edition), Chapter IV "De maximis & minimis". Proof for integer exponent The first case has a simple inductive proof: Suppose the statement is true for : Then it follows that Bernoulli's inequality can be proved for case 2, in which is a non-negative integer and , using mathematical induction in the following form: we prove the inequality for , from validity for some r we deduce validity for . For , is equivalent to which is true. Similarly, for we have Now suppose the statement is true for : Then it follows that since as well as . By the modified induction we conclude the statement is true for every non-negative integer . By noting that if , then is negative gives case 3. Generalizations Generalization of exponent The exponent can be generalized to an arbitrary real number as follows: if , then for or , and for . This generalization can be proved by comparing derivatives. The strict versions of these inequalities require and . Generalization of base Instead of the inequality holds also in the form where are real numbers, all greater than , all with the same sign. Bernoulli's inequality is a special case when . This generalized inequality can be proved by mathematical induction. In the first step we take . In this case the inequality is obviously true. In the second step we assume validity of the inequality for numbers and deduce validity for numbers. We assume thatis valid. After multiplying both sides with a positive number we get: As all have the same sign, the products are all positive numbers. So the quantity on the right-hand side can be bounded as follows:what was to be shown. Related inequalities The following inequality estimates the -th power of from the other side. For any real numbers and with , one has where 2.718.... This may be proved using the inequality . Alternative form An alternative form of Bernoulli's inequality for and is: This can be proved (for any integer ) by using the formula for geometric series: (using ) or equivalently Alternative proofs Arithmetic and geometric means An elementary proof for and x ≥ -1 can be given using weighted AM-GM. Let be two non-negative real constants. By weighted AM-GM on with weights respectively, we get Note that and so our inequality is equivalent to After substituting (bearing in mind that this implies ) our inequality turns into which is Bernoulli's inequality. Geometric series Bernoulli's inequality is equivalent to and by the formula for geometric series (using y = 1 + x) we get which leads to Now if then by monotony of the powers each summand , and therefore their sum is greater and hence the product on the LHS of (). If then by the same arguments and thus all addends are non-positive and hence so is their sum. Since the product of two non-positive numbers is non-negative, we get again (). Binomial theorem One can prove Bernoulli's inequality for x ≥ 0 using the binomial theorem. It is true trivially for r = 0, so suppose r is a positive integer. Then Clearly and hence as required. Using convexity For the function is strictly convex. Therefore for holds and the reversed inequality is valid for and . Notes References External links Bernoulli Inequality by Chris Boucher, Wolfram Demonstrations Project. Inequalities
The Benjamin Franklin-class submarine''' was a group of US ballistic missile submarines that were in Navy service from the 1960s–2000s. The class was an evolutionary development from the earlier of fleet ballistic missile submarine. Having quieter machinery and other improvements, it is considered a separate class. A subset of this class is the re-engineered 640 class starting with . The primary difference was that they were built under the new SUBSAFE rules after the loss of , earlier boats of the class had to be retrofitted to meet SUBSAFE requirements. The Benjamin Franklin class, together with the , , , and classes, comprised the "41 for Freedom" that was the Navy's primary contribution to the nuclear deterrent force through the late 1980s. This class and the James Madison class are combined with the Lafayettes in some references. Design The Benjamin Franklin-class submarines were built with the Polaris A-3 ballistic missile, and in the early 1970s were converted to carry the Poseidon C-3 missile. During the late 1970s and early 1980s, six boats were further modified to carry the Trident I (C-4) missile, along with six James Madison-class boats. These were Benjamin Franklin, Simon Bolivar, George Bancroft, Henry L. Stimson, Francis Scott Key, and Mariano G. Vallejo. Due to the loss of in April 1963, this class was designed to SUBSAFE standards and its equipment was similar to the fast attack submarines (SSNs). Previous US SSBNs except the George Washington class had equipment similar to the SSNs. This class can be distinguished by the fairwater planes' location halfway up the sail; the Lafayettes and James Madisons had the fairwater planes in the upper front portion of the sail. Two submarines of this class were converted for delivery of up to 66 SEALs or other Special Operations Forces each. In the early 1990s, to make room for the ballistic missile submarines within the limits set by the SALT II strategic arms limitation treaty, the ballistic missile tubes of and were disabled. Those boats were redesignated special operations attack submarines and given attack submarine (SSN) hull classification symbols. They were equipped with dry deck shelters to accommodate SEAL Delivery Vehicles or other equipment. Fate The Benjamin Franklins were decommissioned between 1992 and 2002 due to a combination of SALT II treaty limitations as the SSBNs entered service, age, and the collapse of the Soviet Union. USS Kamehameha was decommissioned on 2 April 2002, the last ship of the Benjamin Franklin class to be decommissioned. The sail of George Bancroft is preserved at the Naval Submarine Base King's Bay, Georgia. James K. Polks sail is on display at the National Museum of Nuclear Science & History in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Mariano G. Vallejos sail is preserved at Mare Island, California, where she was built. The sail of Lewis and Clark is on display at the Patriot's Point Maritime Museum in Charleston, South Carolina. Boats in class Submarines of the Benjamin Franklin class: (Submarines marked with * indicate Trident C-4 ballistic missile conversions.) See also 41 for Freedom Fleet Ballistic Missile submarines Fleet Ballistic Missile List of submarines of the United States Navy List of submarine classes of the United States Navy References Citations Sources Gardiner, Robert and Chumbley, Stephen (editors). Conway's All the World's Fighting Ships 1947–1995. Annapolis, USA: Naval Institute Press, 1995. . Polmar, Norman. The Ships and Aircraft of the U.S. Fleet: Twelfth Edition''. London:Arms and Armour Press, 1981. . US Naval Vessel Register - List of SSBN BALLISTIC MISSILE SUBMARINE (NUCLEAR-POWERED) Class vessels External links NavSource.org SSBN photo gallery index Submarine classes Benjamin Franklin class
The Bastard Operator From Hell (BOFH) is a fictional rogue computer operator created by Simon Travaglia, who takes out his anger on users (who are "lusers" to him) and others who pester him with their computer problems, uses his expertise against his enemies and manipulates his employer. Several people have written stories about BOFHs, but only those by Simon Travaglia are considered canonical. The BOFH stories were originally posted in 1992 to Usenet by Travaglia, with some being reprinted in Datamation. Since 2000 they have been published regularly in The Register (UK). Several collections of the stories have been published as books. By extension, the term is also used to refer to any system administrator who displays the qualities of the original. The early accounts of the BOFH took place in a university; later the scenes were set in an office workplace. In 2000 (BOFH 2k), the BOFH and his pimply-faced youth (PFY) assistant moved to a new company. Other characters The PFY (Pimply-Faced Youth, the assistant to the BOFH. Real name is Stephen) Possesses a temperament similar to the BOFH, and often either teams up with or plots against him. The Boss (often portrayed as having no IT knowledge but believing otherwise; identity changes as successive bosses are sacked, leave, are committed, or have nasty "accidents") CEO of the company – The PFY's uncle Brian from 1996 until 2000, when the BOFH and PFY moved to a new company. The help desk operators, referred to as the "Helldesk" and often scolded for giving out the BOFH's personal number. The Boss's secretary, Sharon. The security department George, the cleaner (an invaluable source of information to the BOFH and PFY) Books Games BOFH is a text adventure game written by Howard A. Sherman and published in 2002. It is available via Malinche. References in other media The protagonist in Charles Stross's The Laundry Files series of novels named himself Bob Oliver Francis Howard in reference to the BOFH. As Bob Howard is a self-chosen pseudonym, and Bob is a network manager when not working as a computational demonologist, the name is all too appropriate. In the novella Pimpf, he acquires a pimply-faced young assistant by the name of Peter-Fred Young. Authorship Simon Travaglia (born 1964) graduated from the University of Waikato, New Zealand in 1985. He worked as the IT infrastructure manager (2004–2008) and computer operator (1985–1992) at the University of Waikato and the infrastructure manager at the Waikato Innovation Park, Hamilton, New Zealand (since 2008). Since 1999 he is a freelance writer for The Register. He lives in Hautapu, New Zealand. References Further reading External links Computer humor Internet culture Internet slang System administration Fictional characters introduced in 1992 Fictional people in information technology
Walter Brown "Brownie" McGhee (November 30, 1915 – February 16, 1996) was an American folk and Piedmont blues singer and guitarist, best known for his collaboration with the harmonica player Sonny Terry. Life and career McGhee was born in Knoxville, Tennessee, and grew up in Kingsport, Tennessee. At about the age of four he contracted polio, which incapacitated his right leg. His brother Granville "Stick" McGhee, who also later became a musician and composed the famous song "Drinkin' Wine Spo-Dee-o-Dee," was nicknamed for pushing young Brownie around in a cart. Their father, George McGhee, was a factory worker, known around University Avenue for playing guitar and singing. Brownie's uncle made him a guitar from a tin marshmallow box and a piece of board. McGhee spent much of his youth immersed in music, singing with a local harmony group, the Golden Voices Gospel Quartet, and teaching himself to play guitar. He also played the five-string banjo and ukulele and studied piano. Surgery funded by the March of Dimes enabled McGhee to walk. At the age of 22, McGhee became a traveling musician, working in the Rabbit Foot Minstrels and befriending Blind Boy Fuller, whose guitar playing influenced him greatly. After Fuller's death in 1941, J. B. Long of Columbia Records promoted McGhee as "Blind Boy Fuller No. 2". By that time, McGhee was recording for Columbia's subsidiary Okeh Records in Chicago, but his real success came after he moved to New York in 1942, when he teamed up with Sonny Terry, whom he had known since 1939, when Terry was Fuller's harmonica player. The pairing was an overnight success. They recorded and toured together until around 1980. As a duo, Terry and McGhee did most of their work from 1958 until 1980, spending 11 months of each year touring and recording dozens of albums. Despite their later fame as "pure" folk artists playing for white audiences, in the 1940s Terry and McGhee had attempted to be successful recording artists, fronting a jump blues combo with honking saxophone and rolling piano, variously calling themselves "Brownie McGhee and his Jook House Rockers" or "Sonny Terry and his Buckshot Five", often with Champion Jack Dupree and Big Chief Ellis. They also appeared in the original Broadway productions of Finian's Rainbow and Cat on a Hot Tin Roof. During the blues revival of the 1960s, Terry and McGhee were popular on the concert and music festival circuits, occasionally adding new material but usually remaining faithful to their roots and playing to the tastes of their audiences. Late in his life, McGhee appeared in small roles in films and on television. He and Terry appeared in the 1979 Steve Martin comedy The Jerk. In 1987, McGhee gave a small but memorable performance as the ill-fated blues singer Toots Sweet in the supernatural thriller movie Angel Heart. In his review of Angel Heart, the critic Roger Ebert singled out McGhee for praise, declaring that he delivered a "performance that proves [saxophonist] Dexter Gordon isn't the only old musician who can act." McGhee appeared in the television series Family Ties, in a 1988 episode entitled "The Blues, Brother", in which he played the fictional blues musician Eddie Dupre. He also appeared in the television series Matlock, in a 1989 episode entitled "The Blues Singer", playing a friend of an old blues musician (Joe Seneca) who is accused of murder. In the episode, McGhee, Seneca and star Andy Griffith perform a duet of "The Midnight Special". Happy Traum, a former guitar student of McGhee's, edited a blues guitar instruction guide and songbook, Guitar Styles of Brownie McGhee, published in 1971, in which McGhee, between lessons, talked about his life and the blues. The autobiographical section features McGhee talking about growing up, his musical beginnings, and a history of the blues from the 1930s onward. McGhee and Terry were both recipients of a 1982 National Heritage Fellowship awarded by the National Endowment for the Arts, which is the United States government's highest honor in the folk and traditional arts. That year's fellowships were the first bestowed by the NEA. One of McGhee's last concert appearances was at the 1995 Chicago Blues Festival. He died of stomach cancer on February 16, 1996, in Oakland, California, at the age of 80. Discography Solo albums Traditional Blues, Vol. 1 (Folkways Records, 1951) Brownie McGhee Blues (Folkways, 1955) Brownie McGhee Sings the Blues (Folkways, 1959) Traditional Blues, Vol. 2 (Folkways, 1960) Brownie's Blues (Bluesville, 1962) Blues Is Truth (Blues Alliance, 1976) Facts of Life (Blues Rock'It, 1985) with the Ford Blues Band Compilation The Folkways Years, 1945–1959 (Smithsonian Folkways, 1991) With Sonny Terry Brownie McGhee Blues (Folkways, 1955) Washboard Band: Country Dance Music (Folkways, 1956) Folk Songs of Sonny Terry and Brownie McGhee (Roulette, 1958) Blues with Big Bill Broonzy, Sonny Terry and Brownie McGhee (Folkways, 1959) Down South Summit Meetin' (World Pacific, 1960), with Lightnin' Hopkins and Big Joe Williams Down Home Blues (Bluesville, 1960) Blues Hoot (Horizon, 1961 [1963]), with Lightnin' Hopkins and Big Joe Williams Brownie McGhee & Sonny Terry at the 2nd Fret (Prestige, 1962) Sonny Is King (Bluesville, 1963) A Long Way from Home (BluesWay, 1969) I Couldn't Believe My Eyes (BluesWay, 1969 [1973]) Sonny & Brownie (A&M Records, 1973) Brownie McGhee and Sonny Terry Sing (Smithsonian Folkways, 1990) Back Country Blues (Southern Routes, 2016) Other Songs for Victory: Music for Political Action, with the Union Boys (1944) See also American folk music Woody Guthrie List of blues musicians List of folk musicians List of people from Tennessee Union Boys References External links Center for Southern African American Music - Brownie McGhee — McGhee bio and audio samples Series of taped interviews with Brownie McGhee 1915 births 1996 deaths 20th-century African-American male singers 20th-century American guitarists 20th-century American pianists A&M Records artists African-American guitarists African-American pianists American blues guitarists American blues pianists American blues singers American folk singers American male guitarists American male pianists Blues revival musicians Country blues musicians Deaths from cancer in California Deaths from stomach cancer East Coast blues musicians Folkways Records artists Guitarists from Tennessee National Heritage Fellowship winners People from Kingsport, Tennessee Musicians from Knoxville, Tennessee Piedmont blues musicians Prestige Records artists Roulette Records artists Singers from Tennessee Southland Records artists
The International Bureau of Weights and Measures (, BIPM) is an intergovernmental organisation, through which its 59 member-states act on measurement standards in four areas: chemistry, ionising radiation, physical metrology, as well as Coordinated Universal Time. It is based in Saint-Cloud, near Paris, France. The organisation has been referred to as IBWM (from its name in English) in older literature. Structure The BIPM is overseen by the International Committee for Weights and Measures (), a committee of eighteen members that meet normally in two sessions per year, which is in turn overseen by the General Conference on Weights and Measures () that meets in Paris usually once every four years, consisting of delegates of the governments of the Member States and observers from the Associates of the CGPM. These organs are also commonly referred to by their French initialisms. History The BIPM was created on 20 May 1875, following the signing of the Metre Convention, a treaty among 17 Member States ( there are now 59 members). It is based at the Pavillon de Breteuil in Saint-Cloud, France, a site (originally ) granted to the Bureau by the French Government in 1876. Since 1969 the site has been considered international territory, and the BIPM has all the rights and privileges accorded an intergovernmental organisation. This status was further clarified by the French decree No 70-820 of 9 September 1970. Function The BIPM has the mandate to provide the basis for a single, coherent system of measurements throughout the world, traceable to the International System of Units (SI). This task takes many forms, from direct dissemination of units to coordination through international comparisons of national measurement standards (as in electricity and ionising radiation). Following consultation, a draft version of the BIPM Work Programme is presented at each meeting of the General Conference for consideration with the BIPM budget. The final programme of work is determined by the CIPM in accordance with the budget agreed to by the CGPM. Currently, the BIPM's main work includes: Scientific and technical activities carried out in its four departments: chemistry, ionising radiation, physical metrology, and time Liaison and coordination work, including providing the secretariat for the CIPM Consultative Committees and some of their Working Groups and for the CIPM MRA, and providing institutional liaison with the other bodies supporting the international quality infrastructure and other international bodies Capacity building and knowledge transfer programs to increase the effectiveness within the worldwide metrology community of those Member State and Associates with emerging metrology systems A resource centre providing a database and publications for international metrology The BIPM is one of the twelve member organisations of the International Network on Quality Infrastructure (INetQI), which promotes and implements QI activities in metrology, accreditation, standardisation and conformity assessment. The BIPM has an important role in maintaining accurate worldwide time of day. It combines, analyses, and averages the official atomic time standards of member nations around the world to create a single, official Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). Directors Since its establishment, the directors of the BIPM have been: See also History of the metre Institute for Reference Materials and Measurements International Organization for Standardization Metrologia National Institute of Standards and Technology Seconds pendulum World Metrology Day Versailles project on advanced materials and standards Notes References External links Intergovernmental organizations established by treaty Metric system Metrology organizations Organizations based in Paris Organizations established in 1875 Standards organizations in France
Blu Tack is a reusable putty-like pressure-sensitive adhesive produced by Bostik, commonly used to attach lightweight objects (such as posters or sheets of paper) to walls, doors or other dry surfaces. Traditionally blue, it is also available in other colours. Generic versions of the product are also available from other manufacturers. The spelling now used is without a hyphen. The composition is described as a synthetic rubber compound without hazardous properties under normal conditions. It can be swallowed without harm and is not carcinogenic. It is non-soluble and is denser than water. The material is not flammable, but emits carbon dioxide and carbon monoxide when exposed to fire or high temperatures. As of 2015, Bostik was manufacturing around 100 tonnes of Blu Tack weekly at its Leicester factory. History While the inventor of the commercially released Bostik product is unknown, a precursor product to Blu Tack was created by a sealant developer around 1970, as an accidental by-product of an attempt to develop a new sealant using chalk powder, rubber and oil. Originally Blu Tack was white, but consumer research showed fears that children may mistake it for chewing gum, so a blue colouring was added. In the United Kingdom in March 2008, 20,000 numbered packs of pink Blu Tack were made available, to help raise money for Breast Cancer Campaign, with 10 pence from each pack going to the charity. The formulation was slightly altered to retain complete consistency with its blue counterpart. Since then, many coloured variations have been made, including red and white, yellow, and a green Halloween pack. Similar products Similar products of various colours are made by many manufacturers, including Faber-Castell's "Tack-it", Henkel's "Fun-Tak", UHU's "Poster Putty" and "Sticky Tack", UFO's "Dough Tack", "Gummy Sticker" Pritt's "Sticky Stuff", Bostik's "Prestik" and Elmer's "Poster Tack". Plasti-Tak by Brooks Manufacturing Company appears to pre-date Blu Tack, with a trademark registration in 1964. Versions of the product are also sold under the generic names "adhesive putty" and "mounting putty". The generic trademark or common name for mounting putty varies by region. It is known as "Patafix" in France, Italy, Portugal, Austria and Turkey, in Iceland and lærertyggis in Norway (both meaning "teacher's chewing gum"), ("attachment paste") or in Sweden, and in South Africa (an Afrikaans word, literally translated as "wonder glue"). Alternative uses Like all poster putties, Blu Tack provides an alternative to the artist's traditional kneaded eraser. Blu Tack was often used with the Sinclair ZX81 microcomputer to help mitigate crashes caused by wobbly external RAM modules. This was such a widespread problem that Sinclair Research's technical support department officially recommended the use of Blu Tack to resolve this issue. In 2007 the artist Elizabeth Thompson created a sculpture of a house spider using Blu Tack over a wire frame. It was exhibited at London Zoo. Blu Tack can be used as a damping agent for sound and vibration applications, due to its low amplitude response properties. A 2013 study concluded that the substance is a comfortable alternative to over-the-counter ear plugs for the attenuation of everyday sound. The New Zealand Government Earthquake Commission recommends that products such as Blu Tack should be used to prevent ornaments and small household items from falling or moving in the event of an earthquake. Blu Tack is sometimes used by electronic hobbyists to hold through-hole electronic components in position for soldering onto PC-boards. See also Glue stick References External links Official Blu-Tack site, UK Official Blu Tack site, Australia Letter regarding development of a similar precursor product, from sealant developer Alan Holloway to James Ward, author of Adventures in Stationery, on discussion page Adhesives TotalEnergies Brand name materials
Baroque dance is dance of the Baroque era (roughly 1600–1750), closely linked with Baroque music, theatre, and opera. English country dance The majority of surviving choreographies from the period are English country dances, such as those in the many editions of Playford's The Dancing Master. Playford only gives the floor patterns of the dances, with no indication of the steps. However, other sources of the period, such as the writings of the French dancing-masters Feuillet and Lorin, indicate that steps more complicated than simple walking were used at least some of the time. English country dance survived well beyond the Baroque era and eventually spread in various forms across Europe and its colonies, and to all levels of society. The French Noble style The great innovations in dance in the 17th century originated at the French court under Louis XIV, and it is here that we see the first clear stylistic ancestor of classical ballet. The same basic technique was used both at social events, and as theatrical dance in court ballets and at public theaters. The style of dance is commonly known to modern scholars as the French noble style or belle danse (French, literally "beautiful dance"), however it is often referred to casually as baroque dance in spite of the existence of other theatrical and social dance styles during the baroque era. Primary sources include more than three hundred choreographies in Beauchamp–Feuillet notation, as well as manuals by Raoul Auger Feuillet and Pierre Rameau in France, Kellom Tomlinson, P. Siris, and John Weaver in England, and Gottfried Taubert in Germany (i.e. Leipzig, Saxony). This wealth of evidence has allowed modern scholars and dancers to recreate the style, although areas of controversy still exist. The standard modern introduction is Hilton. French dance types include: Allemande Bourrée Canarie (canary) Chaconne (French) courante Entrée grave Forlane (forlana) Gavotte Gigue Loure (slow gigue) Menuet (minuet) Musette Passacaille (passacaglia) Passepied Polonaise Rigaudon Sarabande Tambourin The English, working in the French style, added their own hornpipe to this list. Many of these dance types are familiar from baroque music, perhaps most spectacularly in the stylized suites of J. S. Bach. Note, however, that the allemandes, that occur in these suites do not correspond to a French dance from the same period. Theatrical dance The French noble style was danced both at social events and by professional dancers in theatrical productions such as opera-ballets and court entertainments. However, 18th-century theatrical dance had at least two other styles: comic or grotesque, and semi-serious. Other social dance styles Other dance styles, such as the Italian and Spanish dances of the period, are much less well studied than either English country dance or the French style. The general picture seems to be that during most of the 17th century, a style of late Renaissance dance was widespread, but as time progressed, French ballroom dances such as the minuet were widely adopted at fashionable courts. Beyond this, the evolution and cross-fertilisation of dance styles is an area of ongoing research. Modern reconstructions The revival of baroque music in the 1960s and '70s sparked renewed interest in 17th and 18th century dance styles. While some 300 of these dances had been preserved in Beauchamp–Feuillet notation, it wasn't until the mid-20th century that serious scholarship commenced in deciphering the notation and reconstructing the dances. Perhaps best known among these pioneers was Britain's Melusine Wood, who published several books on historical dancing in the 1950s. Wood passed her research on to her student Belinda Quirey, and also to Pavlova Company ballerina and choreographer Mary Skeaping (1902–1984). The latter became well known for her reconstructions of baroque ballets for London's "Ballet for All" company in the 1960s. The leading figures of the second generation of historical dance research include Shirley Wynne and her Baroque Dance Ensemble which was founded at Ohio State University in the early 1970s and Wendy Hilton (1931–2002), a student of Belinda Quirey who supplemented the work of Melusine Wood with her own research into original sources. A native of Britain, Hilton arrived in the U.S. in 1969 joining the faculty of the Juilliard School in 1972 and establishing her own baroque dance workshop at Stanford University in 1974 which endured for more than 25 years. Catherine Turocy (b. circa 1950) began her studies in Baroque dance in 1971 as a student of dance historian Shirley Wynne. She founded The New York Baroque Dance Company in 1976 with Ann Jacoby, and the company has since toured internationally. In 1982/83 as part of the French national celebration of Jean Philippe Rameau's 300th birthday, Turocy choreographed the first production of Jean-Philippe Rameau's Les Boréades - it was never performed during the composer's lifetime. This French supported production with John Eliot Gardiner, conductor, and his orchestra was directed by Jean Louis Martinoty. Turocy has been decorated as Chevalier in the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres by the French government. In 1973, French dance historian Francine Lancelot (1929–2003) began her formal studies in ethnomusicology which later led her to research French traditional dance forms and eventually Renaissance and Baroque dances. In 1980, at the invitation of the French Minister of Culture, she founded the baroque dance company "Ris et Danceries". Her work in choreographing the landmark 1986 production of Lully's 1676 tragedie-lyrique Atys was part of the national celebration of the 300th anniversary of Lully's death. This production propelled the career of William Christie and his ensemble Les Arts Florissants. Since the Ris et Danseries company was disbanded circa 1993, choreographers from the company have continued with their own work. Béatrice Massin with her "Compagnie Fetes Galantes", along with Marie-Geneviève Massé and her company "L'Eventail" are among the most prominent. In 1995 Francine Lancelot's catalogue raisonné of baroque dance, entitled La Belle Dance, was published. References External links BaroqueDance.info - background information, period dancing manuals, and a large collection of links The Calendar of Early Dance - information about upcoming baroque events, choreographies and photo galleries Dance European court festivities
The Borzoi or Russian Hunting Sighthound is a Russian breed of hunting dog of sighthound type. It was formerly used for wolf hunting, and until 1936 was known as the Russian Wolfhound. Etymology The system by which Russians over the ages named their sighthounds was a series of descriptive terms rather than actual names. is the masculine singular form of an archaic Russian adjective that means 'fast'. ('fast dog') is the basic term for sighthounds used by Russians, though is usually dropped. The name derived from the word , which means 'wavy, silky coat', just as (as in hortaya borzaya) means shorthaired. In modern Russian, the breed commonly called the Borzoi is officially known as . Other Russian sighthound breeds are (from the steppe), called ; and (from the Crimea), called . History The Borzoi originated in sixteenth-century Russia by crossing Saluki and European sighthounds with thick-coated Russian breeds. The Borzoi was popular with the Tsars before the 1917 revolution. For centuries, Borzois could not be purchased but only given as gifts from the Tsar. Grand Duke Nicholas Nicolaievich of Russia bred countless Borzoi at Perchino, his private estate. The Russkaya Psovaya Borzaya was definitively accepted by the Fédération Cynologique Internationale in 1956. Description Appearance Borzois are large Russian sighthounds that resemble some central Asian breeds such as the Afghan hound, Saluki, and the Kyrgyz Taigan. Borzois come in a variety of colours. The Borzoi coat is silky and flat, often wavy or slightly curly. The long top-coat is quite flat, with varying degrees of waviness or curling. The soft undercoat thickens during winter or in cold climates, but is shed in hot weather to prevent overheating. In its texture and distribution over the body, the Borzoi coat is unique. There should be a frill on its neck, as well as feathering on its hindquarters and tail. Borzois are also known for their long snouts, which became the subject of an Internet meme. Temperament The Borzoi is an affectionate and athletic breed of dog with a calm temperament. In terms of obedience, Borzois are selective learners who quickly become bored with repetitive, apparently pointless activity, and they can be very stubborn when they are not properly motivated. For example, food rewards, or "baiting", may work well for some individuals, but not at all for others. Nevertheless, Borzois are definitely capable of enjoying and performing well in competitive obedience and agility trials with the right kind of training. Health Stated life expectancy is 10 to 12 years. Median lifespan based on a UK Kennel Club survey is 9 years 1 month. 1 in 5 died of old age, at an average of 10 to 11.5 years. The longest lived dog lived to 14 years 3 months. Dogs that are physically fit and vigorous in their youth through middle age are more vigorous and healthy as elderly dogs, all other factors being equal. In the UK, cancer and cardiac problems seem to be the most frequent causes of premature death. Notes References Further reading Including a translation of The Perchino Hunt by His Excellency Dmitri Walzoff (1912). FCI breeds Sighthounds Wolf hunting Rare dog breeds
BBS may refer to: Ammunition BBs, BB gun metal bullets BBs, airsoft gun plastic pellets Computing and gaming Bulletin board system, a computer server users dial into via dial-up or telnet; precursor to the Internet BIOS Boot Specification, a firmware specification for the boot process Blum Blum Shub, a pseudorandom number generator Kingdom Hearts Birth by Sleep, a Disney-based video game for the PlayStation Portable Organisations United Kingdom Birmingham Business School (University of Birmingham), a faculty British Blind Sport, a parasports charity British Boy Scouts, a national youth association British Bryological Society, a botanists' learned society United States BBS Productions, a film company of early 1970s New Hollywood Badger Boys State, a youth camp held in Wisconsin Elsewhere BBS Kraftfahrzeugtechnik, a German wheel manufacturer Bahrain Bayan School Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics Baton Broadcast System, Canada Bhutan Broadcasting Service, Bhutan Bodu Bala Sena, Sri Lanka Bologna Business School, Italy Budapest Business School, Hungary Science Bardet–Biedl syndrome, a genetic disorder Behavioral and Brain Sciences, a peer-reviewed journal Behavior-based safety, the risk reduction subfield of behavioural engineering Berg Balance Scale, a medical function test Bogart–Bacall syndrome, a vocal misuse disorder Borate buffered saline, in biochemistry Breeding bird survey, to monitor avian populations Titles Bachelor of Business Studies, an academic degree Bronze Bauhinia Star, in the Hong Kong honors system Train stations Bhubaneswar railway station, Odisha, India (by Indian Railways code) Bras Basah MRT station, Singapore (by MRT abbreviation)
The bell curve is typical of the normal distribution. Bell curve may also refer to: Gaussian function, a specific kind of function whose graph is a bell-shaped curve The Bell Curve, a 1994 book by Richard J. Herrnstein and Charles Murray Bell curve grading, a method of evaluating scholastic performance
Banda may refer to: People Banda (surname) Banda Prakash (born 1954), Indian politician Banda Kanakalingeshwara Rao (1907–1968), Indian actor Banda Karthika Reddy (born 1977), Indian politician Banda Singh Bahadur (1670–1716), Sikh warrior Places Argentina Banda Department, a part of Santiago del Estero Province, Argentina Canada Banda, Ontario, a settlement in Ontario Ghana Banda Ahenkro, a town in Banda District Banda District, Ghana, a district in the Bono Region Banda (Ghana parliament constituency), a constituency in the Bono Region India Banda, East Godavari district, a village in Andhra Pradesh, India Banda, Maharashtra, a small town in Maharashtra Banda, Uttar Pradesh, a city and district headquarters of Banda District, Uttar Pradesh Banda District, India, a district in Uttar Pradesh Banda (Lok Sabha constituency), Uttar Pradesh Banda (Assembly constituency), a constituency of the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly Banda (Vidhan Sabha constituency), Madhya Pradesh Indonesia Banda Islands, a group of ten small volcanic islands in the Banda Sea Banda Sea, the sea of the South Moluccas, a part of the Pacific Ocean Uganda Banda, Uganda, a hill and the neighbourhood on that hill, located in Nakawa Division, within the city of Kampala Music "A Banda (Ah Bahn-da)", a composition by Chico Buarque Banda music, a form of Mexican music Banda (opera), a musical ensemble which is used in addition to the main opera orchestra and plays the music which is actually heard by the characters in the opera Other uses Banda people, an ethnic group of the Central African Republic, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Cameroon, and Sudan Banda languages, a family of Ubangian languages of Central Africa Banda language (Maluku), an Austronesian language of the Kei Islands, Indonesia Banda machine, a brand of spirit duplicator - a type of low-volume document copying machine Banda (state), a former princely state in India Banda, a large smoked fish in Chad Banda, a caste of adivasis in Odisha, Chhattisgarh, and Jharkhand Banda Deul, an 11th-century temple in Purulia district, West Bengal, India See also Bandar (disambiguation) Bande (disambiguation) Bandha (disambiguation) La Banda (disambiguation)
The bladder (or urinary bladder) is an organ that collects urine for excretion in animals. Bladder may also refer to: Biology Artificial urinary bladder, in humans Gallbladder, which stores bile for digestion Pig bladder, urinary bladder of a domestic pig, with many human uses Swim bladder, in bony fishes, an internal organ that helps to control buoyancy (homologous to lungs) Urinary bladder (Chinese medicine) Technology Air bladder effect, a special effect used in filmmaking Fuel bladder, which stores fuels or other industrial liquids Hydration system, sometimes known as a bladder Pneumatic bladder, an old technology with many industrial applications Waterskin, a traditional container for transporting water Geography Bladder Lake, a lake in Minnesota See also
Robert Young (born 1953/1954) is a serial entrepreneur who is best known for founding Red Hat Inc., the open source software company. He owns the franchises for Forge FC of the Canadian Premier League as well as the Hamilton Tiger-Cats of the Canadian Football League for which he serves as self-styled Caretaker of the team. Early life He was born in Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. He attended Trinity College School in Port Hope, Ontario. He received a Bachelor of Arts from Victoria College at the University of Toronto. Career Prior to Red Hat, Young built a couple of computer rental and leasing businesses, including founding Vernon Computer Rentals in 1984. Descendants of Vernon are still operating under that name. After leaving Vernon, Young founded the ACC Corp Inc. in 1993. Marc Ewing and Young co-founded open-source software company Red Hat. Red Hat was a member of the S&P 500 Index before being purchased by IBM on July 9, 2019. Marc Ewing and Young's partnership started in 1994 when ACC acquired the Red Hat trademarks from Ewing. In early 1995, ACC changed its name to Red Hat Software, which has subsequently been shortened to simply Red Hat, Inc. Young served as Red Hat's CEO until 1999. In 2002, Young founded Lulu.com, a print-on-demand, self-publishing company, and served as CEO. In 2006, Young established the Lulu Blooker Prize, a book prize for books that began as blogs. He launched the prize partly as a means to promote Lulu. Young served as CEO of PrecisionHawk, a commercial drone technology company, from 2015 to 2017. Prior to being named PrecisionHawk's CEO in 2015, he was an early investor in the company. He continues to serve on its board as chairman. Young also co-founded Linux Journal in 1994, and in 2003, he purchased the Hamilton Tiger-Cats of the Canadian Football League. In 2022, he sold minority stakes in the Tiger-Cats to Jim Lawson, team President Scott Mitchell, and American steel manufacturer Stelco. Young focuses his philanthropic efforts on access to information and advancement of knowledge. In 1999, he co-founded The Center for the Public Domain. Young has supported the Creative Commons, Public Knowledge.org, the Dictionary of Old English, Loran Scholarship Foundation, ibiblio.org, and the NCSU eGames, among others. References Year of birth missing (living people) Living people Open source people Red Hat people University of Toronto alumni Businesspeople from Hamilton, Ontario Hamilton Tiger-Cats owners Forge FC non-playing staff Canadian soccer chairmen and investors
BeOS is an operating system for personal computers first developed by Be Inc. in 1990. It was first written to run on BeBox hardware. BeOS was positioned as a multimedia platform that could be used by a substantial population of desktop users and a competitor to Classic Mac OS and Microsoft Windows. It was ultimately unable to achieve a significant market share, and did not prove commercially viable for Be Inc. The company was acquired by Palm, Inc. Today BeOS is mainly used, and derivatives developed, by a small population of enthusiasts. The open-source operating system Haiku is a continuation of BeOS concepts and most of the application level compatibility. The latest version, Beta 4 released December 2022, still retains BeOS 5 compatibility in its x86 32-bit images. History Initially designed to run on AT&T Hobbit-based hardware, BeOS was later modified to run on PowerPC-based processors: first Be's own systems, later Apple Computer's PowerPC Reference Platform and Common Hardware Reference Platform, with the hope that Apple would purchase or license BeOS as a replacement for its aging Classic Mac OS. Toward the end of 1996, Apple was still looking for a replacement to Copland in their operating system strategy. Amidst rumours of Apple's interest in purchasing BeOS, Be wanted to increase their user base, to try to convince software developers to write software for the operating system. Be courted Macintosh clone vendors to ship BeOS with their hardware. Apple CEO Gil Amelio started negotiations to buy Be Inc., but negotiations stalled when Be CEO Jean-Louis Gassée wanted $300 million; Apple was unwilling to offer any more than $125 million. Apple's board of directors decided NeXTSTEP was a better choice and purchased NeXT in 1996 for $429 million, bringing back Apple co-founder Steve Jobs. In 1997, Power Computing began bundling BeOS (on a CD for optional installation) with its line of PowerPC-based Macintosh clones. These systems could dual boot either the Classic Mac OS or BeOS, with a start-up screen offering the choice. Motorola also announced in February 1997 that it would bundle BeOS with their Macintosh clones, the Motorola StarMax, along with MacOS. Due to Apple's moves and the mounting debt of Be Inc., BeOS was soon ported to the Intel x86 platform with its R3 release in March 1998. Through the late 1990s, BeOS managed to create a niche of followers, but the company failed to remain viable. Be Inc. also released a stripped-down, but free, copy of BeOS R5 known as BeOS Personal Edition (BeOS PE). BeOS PE could be started from within Microsoft Windows or Linux, and was intended to nurture consumer interest in its product and give developers something to tinker with. Be Inc. also released a stripped-down version of BeOS for Internet appliances (BeIA), which soon became the company's business focus in place of BeOS. In 2001, Be's copyrights were sold to Palm, Inc. for some $11 million. BeOS R5 is considered the last official version, but BeOS R5.1 "Dano", which was under development before Be's sale to Palm and included the BeOS Networking Environment (BONE) networking stack, was leaked to the public shortly after the company's demise. In 2002, Be Inc. sued Microsoft claiming that Hitachi had been dissuaded from selling PCs loaded with BeOS, and that Compaq had been pressured not to market an Internet appliance in partnership with Be. Be also claimed that Microsoft acted to artificially depress Be Inc.'s initial public offering (IPO). The case was eventually settled out of court for $23.25 million with no admission of liability on Microsoft's part. After the split from Palm, PalmSource used parts of BeOS's multimedia framework for its failed Palm OS Cobalt product. With the takeover of PalmSource, the BeOS rights now belong to Access Co. Version history Features BeOS was built for digital media work and was written to take advantage of modern hardware facilities such as symmetric multiprocessing by utilizing modular I/O bandwidth, pervasive multithreading, preemptive multitasking and a 64-bit journaling file system known as BFS. The BeOS GUI was developed on the principles of clarity and a clean, uncluttered design. The API was written in C++ for ease of programming. The GUI was largely multithreaded: each window ran in its own thread, relying heavily on sending messages to communicate between threads; and these concepts are reflected into the API. It has partial POSIX compatibility and access to a command-line interface through Bash, although internally it is not a Unix-derived operating system. Many Unix applications were ported to the BeOS command-line interface. BeOS uses Unicode as the default encoding in the GUI, though support for input methods such as bidirectional text input was never realized. Legacy Products BeOS (and now Zeta) have been used in media appliances, such as the Edirol DV-7 video editors from Roland Corporation, which run on top of a modified BeOS and the Tunetracker Radio Automation software that used to run it on BeOS and Zeta, and it was also sold as a "Station-in-a-Box" with the Zeta operating system included. In 2015, Tunetracker released a Haiku distribution bundled with its broadcasting software. The Tascam SX-1 digital audio recorder runs a heavily modified version of BeOS that will only launch the recording interface software. The RADAR 24, RADAR V and RADAR 6, hard disk-based, 24-track professional audio recorders from iZ Technology Corporation were based on BeOS 5. Magicbox, a manufacturer of signage and broadcast display machines, uses BeOS to power their Aavelin product line. Final Scratch, a 12-inch vinyl timecode record-driven DJ software and hardware system, was first developed on BeOS. The "ProFS" version was sold to a few dozen DJs prior to the 1.0 release, which ran on a Linux virtual partition. Continuation After the closing of Be Inc., a few projects formed to recreate BeOS or its key elements with the eventual goal of then continuing where Be Inc. left off. This was facilitated by Be Inc. having released some components of BeOS under a free license. Haiku is a complete reimplementation of BeOS not based on Linux. Unlike Cosmoe and BlueEyedOS, it is directly compatible with BeOS applications. It is open source software. As of 2022, it was the only BeOS clone still under development, with the fourth beta (December 2022) still keeping BeOS 5 compatibility in its x86 32-bit images, with an increased number of modern drivers and GTK apps ported. Zeta is a commercially available operating system based on the BeOS R5.1 codebase. Originally developed by yellowTAB, the operating system was then distributed by magnussoft. During development by yellowTAB, the company received criticism from the BeOS community for refusing to discuss its legal position with regard to the BeOS codebase (perhaps for contractual reasons). Access Co. (which bought PalmSource, until then the holder of the intellectual property associated with BeOS) has since declared that yellowTAB had no right to distribute a modified version of BeOS, and magnussoft has ceased distribution of the operating system. See also Access Co. BeIA Comparison of operating systems Gobe Productive Hitachi Flora Prius References Further reading External links The Dawn of Haiku, by Ryan Leavengood, IEEE Spectrum May 2012, p 40–43,51-54. Mirror of the old www.be.com site Other Mirror of the old www.be.com site BeOS Celebrating Ten Years BeGroovy A blog dedicated to all things BeOS BeOS: The Mac OS X might-have-been, reghardware.co.uk Programming the Be Operating System: An O'Reilly Open Book (out of print, but can be downloaded) (BeOS) Discontinued operating systems Object-oriented operating systems PowerPC operating systems X86 operating systems
The Balfour Declaration of 1926, issued by the 1926 Imperial Conference of British Empire leaders in London, was named after Arthur Balfour, who was Lord President of the Council. It declared the United Kingdom and the Dominions to be: The Inter-Imperial Relations Committee, chaired by Balfour, drew up the document preparatory to its unanimous approval by the imperial prime ministers on 15 November 1926. It was first proposed by South African Prime Minister J. B. M. Hertzog and Canadian Prime Minister William Lyon Mackenzie King. The declaration accepted the growing political and diplomatic independence of the Dominions in the years after World War I. It also recommended that the governors-general, the representatives of the King in each dominion, should no longer also serve automatically as the representative of the British government in diplomatic relations between the countries. In following years, high commissioners were gradually appointed, whose duties were soon recognised to be virtually identical to those of an ambassador. The first such British high commissioner was appointed to Canada in 1928. The conclusions of the Imperial Conference of 1926 were re-stated by the 1930 conference and incorporated in the Statute of Westminster of December 1931. In the statute, the British Parliament provided that it would not enact a law which applied to a Dominion as part of the law of that Dominion, unless the law expressly stated that the Dominion government had requested and consented to the enactment of that law. References Further reading External links Transcript of the Declaration British Empire History of the Commonwealth of Nations Commonwealth realms Monarchy in the Irish Free State Legal history of Canada 1926 in London 1926 in international relations Proclamations 1926 in the British Empire 1926 documents November 1926 events Arthur Balfour
Buffalo most commonly refers to: True buffalo or Bubalina, a subtribe of wild cattle, including most "Old World" buffalo, such as water buffalo Buffalo (bison), a genus of wild cattle, including the American buffalo Buffalo, New York, a city in the northeastern United States Buffalo or buffaloes may also refer to: Animals Bubalina, a subtribe of the tribe Bovini within the subfamily Bovinae African buffalo or Cape Buffalo (Syncerus caffer) Bubalus, a genus of bovines including various water buffalo species Wild water buffalo (Bubalus arnee) Water buffalo (Bubalus bubalis) Italian Mediterranean buffalo, a breed of water buffalo Anoa Tamaraw (Bubalus mindorensis) Bubalus murrensis, an extinct species of water buffalo that occupied riverine habitats in Europe in the Pleistocene Bison, large, even-toed ungulates in the genus Bison within the subfamily Bovinae American bison (Bison bison), also commonly referred to as the American buffalo or simply "buffalo" in North America European bison is also known as the European buffalo Aurochs, a primitive ox Ictiobus, a North American genus of fish, known as buffalos Places Canada Buffalo, Alberta, a ghost town Buffalo National Park, Alberta Rural Municipality of Buffalo No. 409, Saskatchewan, a rural municipality Calgary-Buffalo, Alberta, a provincial electoral district Province of Buffalo, a proposed Canadian province United States Buffalo, New York, the largest city by population with its name Buffalo–Niagara Falls metropolitan area Buffalo Niagara International Airport Buffalo, Illinois Buffalo, Indiana Buffalo, Iowa Buffalo, Kansas Buffalo, Kentucky Buffalo, Minnesota Buffalo, Missouri Buffalo, Montana Buffalo, Nebraska Buffalo, North Carolina Buffalo, North Dakota Buffalo, Guernsey County, Ohio Buffalo, Jackson County, Ohio Buffalo, Oklahoma Buffalo, South Carolina Buffalo, South Dakota Buffalo, Tennessee (disambiguation) Buffalo, Texas Buffalo, Henderson County, Texas Buffalo, West Virginia Buffalo, Jackson County, West Virginia Buffalo, Buffalo County, Wisconsin Buffalo, Marquette County, Wisconsin Buffalo, Wyoming Elsewhere Buffalo, Victoria, Australia Buffalo City Metropolitan Municipality, Eastern Cape Province, South Africa Multiple entities Buffalo City (disambiguation) Buffalo County (disambiguation) Buffalo Gap (disambiguation) Buffalo Township (disambiguation) Buffalo Trace (disambiguation) Clothing Buffalo (footwear), a clothing brand Buffalo robe, a cured bison hide with the hair, used for saddles, blankets, and padding in carriages and sleighs Buffalo coat, a heavy winter coat made from a buffalo robe or hide Coins American Buffalo (coin), a 24-karat bullion coin introduced 2006 Buffalo nickel, a copper-nickel coin minted 1913–1938 Games Buffalo (card game), a card game Buffalo (game), a drinking game Music Buffalo (band), an Australian hard rock group Buffalo (EP), by Buffalo Buffalo (Frank Zappa album) Buffalo (The Phoenix Foundation album) "Buffalo", by Tyler, the Creator from Cherry Bomb People Chief Buffalo (disambiguation) Norton Buffalo (1951–2009), American singer-songwriter and musician Ted Buffalo (1885–1969), Native American football player Tishynah Buffalo, Indigenous Canadian fashion designer John Buffalo Mailer (born 1978), American writer and actor Black Buffalo (wrestler) (born 1974), Japanese professional wrestler Buffalo Bill, William Frederick "Buffalo Bill" Cody (1846–1917), an American scout, bison hunter, and showman Schools University at Buffalo, known as Buffalo, is a public research university with campuses in Buffalo and Amherst, New York Buffalo State College, a public college in Buffalo, New York Sport Baseball Northern Territory Buffaloes, a defunct Australian baseball team Orix Buffaloes, a 2004–present Japanese baseball team Osaka Kintetsu Buffaloes, a 1950–2004 Japanese baseball team Buffalo Bisons, a professional minor league baseball team based in Buffalo, New York. Basketball Ciego de Avila (basketball), a Cuban basketball team, nicknamed Búfalos Football Buffalo Bills, a National Football League team Darwin Buffaloes, an Australian rules football team Green Buffaloes F.C., a Zambian football team K.A.A. Gent, a Belgian association football team South Africa national Australian rules football team, nicknamed the Buffaloes Hockey Basingstoke Buffalo, an English ice hockey team Calgary Buffaloes, a 1966–67 Western Canada Junior Hockey League team Calgary Buffaloes (AJHL), a 1963–1966 Alberta Junior Hockey League team Buffalo Sabres, a National Hockey League team Rugby Manitoba Buffalo, a Canadian rugby union team Other uses in sport Colorado Buffaloes, the athletic teams of the University of Colorado Boulder Buffalo Bulls, the athletic teams of the University at Buffalo Milligan College Buffaloes, the athletic teams for Milligan College Vélodrome Buffalo and Stade Buffalo, cycling tracks in Paris Technology Buffalo Inc., a Japanese technology company Buffalo AirStation, a line of wireless LAN equipment Buffalo network-attached storage series BUFFALO, the bootloader for the Freescale 68HC11 microcontroller family Transportation Air Buffalo Airways, a Canadian airline Avro 571 Buffalo, a 1920s prototype British biplane Brewster F2A Buffalo, a 1930s–1940s American fighter aircraft de Havilland Canada DHC-5 Buffalo, a 1965–1972 Canadian turboprop aircraft Land Buffalo (mine protected vehicle) Buffalo (1901 automobile), a 1900–1902 American car Buffalo Electric Vehicle Company, a 1912–1915 American car company GM Buffalo bus South Devon Railway Buffalo class, a class of locomotives GWR 1076 Class, a class of locomotives often referred to as the "Buffalo Class". Water , any of several Royal Navy ships , any of several U.S. Navy ships Landing Vehicle Tracked, a WWII-era amphibious vehicle Other uses Buffalo wing, a style of chicken wing prepared with a spicy sauce coating, originally created in Buffalo, New York Royal Antediluvian Order of Buffaloes, a fraternal organisation Pistol-whipping, or "buffaloing", using a handgun as a blunt weapon See also American buffalo (disambiguation) Buffalo Exchange, a fashion retailer Buffalo Soldier (disambiguation) Buffalo Trace (disambiguation) New Buffalo (disambiguation) Operation Buffalo (disambiguation) White Buffalo (disambiguation) Wood buffalo (disambiguation) Búfalo, a brand of hot sauce and other condiments Llama firearms Bufalo pistol Buffalo buffalo Buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo Buffalo buffalo, a sentence illustrating homonyms and homophones Animal common name disambiguation pages
The BeBox is a dual CPU personal computer, briefly sold by Be Inc. to run the company's own operating system, BeOS. It has PowerPC CPUs, its I/O board has a custom "GeekPort", and the front bezel has "Blinkenlights". The BeBox made its debut in October 1995 in a dual PowerPC 603 at 66 MHz configuration. The processors were upgraded to 133 MHz in August 1996 (BeBox Dual603e-133). Production was halted in January 1997, following the port of BeOS to the Macintosh, in order for the company to concentrate on software. Be sold around 1000 66 MHz BeBoxes and 800 133 MHz BeBoxes. BeBox creator Jean-Louis Gassée did not see the BeBox as a general consumer device, warning that "Before we let you use the BeBox, we believe you must have some aptitude toward programming the standard language is C++." CPU configuration Initial prototypes are equipped with two AT&T Hobbit processors and three AT&T 9308S DSPs. Production models use two 66 MHz PowerPC 603 processors or two 133 MHz PowerPC 603e processors to power the BeBox. Prototypes having dual 200 MHz CPUs or four CPUs exist, but were never publicly available. Main board The main board is in a standard AT format commonly found on PC. It used standard PC components to make it as inexpensive as possible. Two PowerPC 603/66 MHz or 603e/133 MHz processors Eight 72-pin SIMM sockets 128 KB Flash ROM Three PCI slots Five ISA slots Internal SCSI connector Internal IDE connector Internal floppy connector External SCSI-2 connector Parallel port Keyboard port, AT-style Three GeekPort fuses I/O Board connector Front panel connector Power connector I/O board The I/O board offers four serial ports (9-pin D-sub), a PS/2 mouse port, and two joystick ports (15-pin D-sub). There are four DIN MIDI ports (two in, two out), two stereo pairs of RCA connectors audio line-level input and output, and a pair of 3.5 mm stereo phono jacks for microphone input and headphone output. There are also internal audio connectors: 5-pin strip for the audio CD line-level playback, and two 4-pin strips for microphone input and headphone output. The audio is produced with a 16-bit DAC stereo sound system capable of 48 kHz and 44.1 kHz. For the more unusual uses, there are three 4-pin mini-DIN infrared (IR) I/O ports. GeekPort An experimental-electronic-development oriented port, backed by three fuses on the mainboard, the 37-pin D-sub "GeekPort" provides digital and analog I/O and DC power on the ISA bus: Two independent, bidirectional 8-bit ports Four A/D pins routing to a 12-bit A/D converter Four D/A pins connected to an independent 8-bit D/A converter Two signal ground reference pins Eleven power and ground pins: Two at +5 V, one at +12 V, one at -12 V, seven ground pins "Blinkenlights" Two yellow/green vertical LED arrays, dubbed the "blinkenlights", are built into the front bezel to illustrate the CPU load. The bottommost LED on the right side indicates hard disk activity. See also Multi Emulator Super System (MESS) able to emulate both BeBox 66 and 133 References External links An interview with Be Inc. CEO Jean-Louis Gassée and VP of Engineering Erich Ringewald. BeBox Photo Gallery (Joseph Palmer: Be HW Engineer) (BeBox) Be Inc. Computer-related introductions in 1995 Computer workstations Personal computers PowerPC computers
Bombay Sapphire is a brand of gin that is distilled by the Bombay Spirits Company, a subsidiary company of Bacardi, at Laverstoke Mill in the village of Laverstoke in the English county of Hampshire. The brand was first launched in 1986 by English wine-merchant IDV. In 1997 Diageo sold the brand to Bacardi. Its name originates from the gin and tonic popularised by the Royal Indian Armed Forces during the British Raj in colonial India; "Bombay" refers to the Indian city and "Sapphire" refers to the violet-blue Star of Bombay which was mined from British Ceylon (Sri Lanka), and is now on display at the Smithsonian Institution. Bombay Sapphire is marketed in a flat-sided, sapphire-coloured bottle that bears a picture of Queen Victoria on the label. The flavouring of the drink comes from a recipe of ten ingredients: almond, lemon peel, liquorice, juniper berries, orris root, angelica, coriander, cassia, cubeb, and grains of paradise. Alcohol brought in from another supplier is evaporated three times using a carterhead still, and the alcohol vapours are passed through a mesh/basket containing the ten botanicals to gain flavour and aroma. This is felt to give the gin a lighter, more floral taste compared to gins created using a copper pot still. Water from Lake Vyrnwy is added to bring the strength of Bombay Sapphire down to 40.0% (UK, the Nordics, several continental European markets, Canada and Australia). The 47.0% version is the standard for sale at duty-free stores in all markets. Production Until 2013, production and bottling of Bombay Sapphire was contracted out by Bacardi to G&J Greenall in Warrington, Cheshire. However, in 2011, plans were announced to move the manufacturing process to a new facility at Laverstoke Mill in Laverstoke, Hampshire. These plans included the restoration of the former Portal's paper mill at the proposed site and the construction of a visitor centre. Planning permission was granted in February 2012, and the centre opened to the public in the autumn of 2014. The visitor centre included a new construction by Thomas Heatherwick of two glasshouses for plants used as botanicals in the production of Bombay Sapphire gin. As part of the transfer of production, two of Greenall's stills were moved from Warrington to Laverstoke. After production was shifted to Laverstoke, bottling of the drink remained contracted out by G&J Greenall, with the undiluted gin being tankered to Warrington for dilution and bottling. Bottling has subsequently been shifted to Glasgow. Varieties Bacardi also markets Bombay Original London Dry Gin (or Bombay Original Dry). Eight botanical ingredients are used in the production of the Original Dry variety, as opposed to the ten in Bombay Sapphire. Wine Enthusiast preferred it to Bombay Sapphire. In September 2011, Bombay Sapphire East was launched in test markets in New York and Las Vegas. This variety has another two botanicals, lemongrass and black peppercorns, in addition to the original ten. It is bottled at 42% and was designed to counteract the sweetness of most tonic water. A special edition of Bombay gin called Star of Bombay was produced in 2015 for the UK market. It is bottled at 47.5% and is distilled from grain. It features bergamot and ambrette seeds in harmony with Bombay's signature botanicals. This version has later been extended to several other markets. Bombay Bramble is a variety infused with blackberries and raspberries and bottled at 37.5% ABV. In the summer of 2019, Bacardi launched a limited edition gin called Bombay Sapphire English Estate, which features three additional English-sourced botanicals: Pennyroyal Mint, rosehip and hazelnut. It is bottled at 41%. Design connection The brand started a series of design collaborations. Their first step into the design world was a series of advertisements featuring work from currently popular designers. Their works, varying from martini glasses to tiles and cloth patterns, are labelled as "Inspired by Bombay Sapphire". The campaign featured designers such as Marcel Wanders, Yves Behar, Karim Rashid, Ulla Darni, and Dror Benshetrit and performance artist Jurgen Hahn. From the success of this campaign, the company began a series of events and sponsored locations. The best known is the Bombay Sapphire Designer Glass Competition, held each year, where design students worldwide can participate by designing their own "inspired" martini cocktail glass. The finalists (one from each participating country) are then invited to the yearly Salone del Mobile, an international design fair in Milano, where the winner is chosen. Bombay Sapphire also endorses glass artists and designers with the Bombay Sapphire Prize, which is awarded yearly to an outstanding design featuring glass. Bombay Sapphire also showcases the designers' work in the Bombay Sapphire endorsed blue room, a design exhibition touring the world each year. From 2008 the Bombay Sapphire Designer Glass Competition final will be held at 100% Design in London, UK, and the Bombay Sapphire Prize will take place in Milan at the Salone Del Mobile. Evaluation Bombay Sapphire has been reviewed by several outside spirit ratings organizations to various degrees of success. Recently, it was awarded a score of 92 (on a 100-point scale) from the Beverage Testing Institute. Ratings aggregator Proof66.com categorizes the Sapphire as a Tier 2 spirit, indicating highly favourable "expert" reviews. Cultural references Bombay Sapphire was used in the video work Victoria Day (Bombay Sapphire), 2002 by contemporary artists Marina Roy and Abbas Akhavan. Long-time sports radio personality Jim Rome is known for his love of Bombay Sapphire Gin, which he often refers to as "the Magic Blue". American hip-hop artist Wiz Khalifa and his "Taylor Gang" are also known for their love of Bombay Sapphire dry gin. Former Las Vegas, Nevada mayor Oscar Goodman is known for his love of Bombay Sapphire Gin, and he has served as a spokesman for the brand. American musician Robert Earl Keen references "a quart of Bombay gin" in the song "The Road Goes on Forever". American YouTuber/streamer Etika was known for drinking Bombay Sapphire, among other alcoholic drinks, during streams as a way to celebrate donations. In the Netflix series BoJack Horseman a bottle strongly resembling Bombay Sapphire can be seen in Princess Carolyn's office. British rapper Scarlxrd has shown his love for Bombay Sapphire in music videos early on in his career, such as "Glx up" American singer-songwriter Warren Zevon's 1976 song "I'll Sleep When I'm Dead" contains the lyrics "I'm drinking heartbreak motor oil and Bombay gin". References External links BoozeBasher review of Bombay Sapphire Bombay Sapphire Designer Glass Competition Bombay Sapphire Prize Bombay Sapphire sparkles in latest collaboration Gins Bacardi Products introduced in 1986 English distilled drinks
BadTrans is a malicious Microsoft Windows computer worm distributed by e-mail. Because of a known vulnerability in older versions of Internet Explorer, some email programs, such as Microsoft's Outlook Express and Microsoft Outlook programs, may install and execute the worm as soon as the e-mail message is viewed. Once executed, the worm replicates by sending copies of itself to other e-mail addresses found on the host's machine, and installs a keystroke logger, which then captures everything typed on the affected computer. Badtrans then transmits the data to one of several e-mail addresses. Among the e-mail addresses that received the keyloggers were free addresses at Excite, Yahoo, and IJustGotFired.com. The target address at IJustGotFired began receiving emails at 3:23pm on November 24, 2001. Once the account exceeded its quotas, it was automatically disabled, but the messages were still saved as they arrived. The address received over 100,000 keylogs in the first day alone. In mid-December, the FBI contacted Rudy Rucker, Jr., owner of MonkeyBrains, and requested a copy of the keylogged data. All of that data was stolen from the victims of the worm; it includes no information about the creator of Badtrans. Instead of complying with the FBI request, MonkeyBrains published a database website, https://web.archive.org/web/20070621140432/https://badtrans.monkeybrains.net/ for the public to determine if a given address has been compromised. The database does not reveal the actual passwords or keylogged data. References Email worms
Blitz BASIC is the programming language dialect of the first Blitz compilers, devised by New Zealand-based developer Mark Sibly. Being derived from BASIC, Blitz syntax was designed to be easy to pick up for beginners first learning to program. The languages are game-programming oriented but are often found general purpose enough to be used for most types of application. The Blitz language evolved as new products were released, with recent incarnations offering support for more advanced programming techniques such as object-orientation and multithreading. This led to the languages losing their BASIC moniker in later years. History The first iteration of the Blitz language was created for the Amiga platform and published by the Australian firm Memory and Storage Technology. Returning to New Zealand, Blitz BASIC 2 was published several years later (around 1993 according this press release ) by Acid Software (a local Amiga game publisher). Since then, Blitz compilers have been released on several platforms. Following the demise of the Amiga as a commercially viable platform, the Blitz BASIC 2 source code was released to the Amiga community. Development continues to this day under the name AmiBlitz. BlitzBasic Idigicon published BlitzBasic for Microsoft Windows in October 2000. The language included a built-in API for performing basic 2D graphics and audio operations. Following the release of Blitz3D, BlitzBasic is often synonymously referred to as Blitz2D. Recognition of BlitzBasic increased when a limited range of "free" versions were distributed in popular UK computer magazines such as PC Format. This resulted in a legal dispute between the developer and publisher which was eventually resolved amicably. BlitzPlus In February 2003, Blitz Research Ltd. released BlitzPlus also for Microsoft Windows. It lacked the 3D engine of Blitz3D, but did bring new features to the 2D side of the language by implementing limited Microsoft Windows control support for creating native GUIs. Backwards compatibility of the 2D engine was also extended, allowing compiled BlitzPlus games and applications to run on systems that might only have DirectX 1. BlitzMax The first BlitzMax compiler was released in December 2004 for Mac OS X. This made it the first Blitz dialect that could be compiled on *nix platforms. Compilers for Microsoft Windows and Linux were subsequently released in May 2005. BlitzMax brought the largest change of language structure to the modern range of Blitz products by extending the type system to include object-oriented concepts and modifying the graphics API to better suit OpenGL. BlitzMax was also the first of the Blitz languages to represent strings internally using UCS-2, allowing native-support for string literals composed of non-ASCII characters. BlitzMax's platform-agnostic command-set allows developers to compile and run source code on multiple platforms. However the official compiler and build chain will only generate binaries for the platform that it is executing on. Unofficially, users have been able to get Linux and Mac OS X to cross-compile to the Windows platform. BlitzMax is also the first modular version of the Blitz languages, improving the extensibility of the command-set. In addition, all of the standard modules shipped with the compiler are open-source and so can be tweaked and recompiled by the programmer if necessary. The official BlitzMax cross-platform GUI module (known as MaxGUI) allows developers to write GUI interfaces for their applications on Linux (FLTK), Mac (Cocoa) and Windows. Various user-contributed modules extend the use of the language by wrapping such libraries as wxWidgets, Cairo, and Fontconfig as well as a selection of database modules. There are also a selection of third-party 3D modules available namely MiniB3D - an open-source OpenGL engine which can be compiled and used on all three of BlitzMax's supported platforms. In October 2007, BlitzMax 1.26 was released which included the addition of a reflection module. BlitzMax 1.32 shipped new threading and Lua scripting modules and most of the standard library functions have been updated so that they are unicode friendly. Blitz3D SDK Blitz3D SDK is a 3D graphics engine based on the engine in Blitz3D. It was marketed for use with C++, C#, BlitzMax, and PureBasic, however it could also be used with other languages that follow compatible calling conventions. Max3D module In 2008, the source code to Max3D - a C++-based cross-platform 3D engine - was released under a BSD license. This engine focused on OpenGL but had an abstract backend for other graphics drivers (such as DirectX) and made use of several open-source libraries, namely Assimp, Boost, and ODE. Despite the excitement in the Blitz community of Max3D being the eagerly awaited successor to Blitz3D, interest and support died off soon after the source code was released and eventually development came to a halt. There is no indication that Blitz Research will pick up the project again. Open-source release BlitzPlus was released as open-source on 28 April 2014 under the zlib license on GitHub. Blitz3D followed soon after and was released as Open Source on 3 August 2014. BlitzMax was later released as Open Source on 21 September 2015. Examples Hello World program that prints to the screen, waits until a key is pressed, and then terminates: Print "Hello World" ; Prints to the screen. WaitKey() ; Pauses execution until a key is pressed. End ; Ends Program.Program that demonstrates the declaration of variables using the three main data types (strings, integers and floats) and printing them onto the screen:name$ = "John" ; Create a string variable ($) age = 36 ; Create an integer variable (No Suffix) temperature# = 27.3 ; Create a float variable (#) print "My name is " + name$ + " and I am " + age + " years old." print "Today, the temperature is " + temperature# + " degrees." Waitkey() ; Pauses execution until a key is pressed. End ; Ends program. Program that creates a windowed application that shows the current time in binary and decimal format. See below for the BlitzMax and BlitzBasic versions: Software written using BlitzBasic Eschalon: Book I - BlitzMax Eschalon: Book II - BlitzMax Fairway Solitaire - BlitzMax GridWars - BlitzMax TVTower (open source clone of MadTV) - BlitzMax Platypus - Blitz2D (Mac port, BlitzMax) SCP – Containment Breach - Blitz3D Worms - originally titled Total Wormage and developed in Blitz Basic on the Amiga before its commercial release Legacy In 2011, BRL released a new cross-platform programming language called Monkey and its first official module called Mojo. Monkey has a similar syntax to BlitzMax, but instead of compiling direct to assembly code, it translates Monkey source files directly into source code for a chosen language, framework or platform e.g. Windows, Mac OS X, iOS, Android, HTML5, and Adobe Flash. Since 2015 development of Monkey X has been halted in favour of Monkey 2, an updated version of the language by Mark Sibly. References External links Blitz Research subsite on itch.io (BlitzPlus, Blitz 3D, Monkey X, Monkey 2) Monkey X subsite (open source) Monkey 2 subsite blitz-research (Mark Sibly) on GitHub (BlitzPlus, BlitzMax, Blitz3D, Monkey, BlitzMax, Blitz3D for MSVC-CE 2017) Blitz Research website (archived 3 June 2017) Monkey X website (archived 15 July 2017) Amiga development software Articles with example BASIC code BASIC compilers BASIC programming language family Formerly proprietary software Free game engines Free software Object-oriented programming languages Software using the zlib license Video game development software Video game IDE
The Bliss bibliographic classification (BC) is a library classification system that was created by Henry E. Bliss (1870–1955) and published in four volumes between 1940 and 1953. Although originally devised in the United States, it was more commonly adopted by British libraries. A second edition of the system (BC2) has been in ongoing development in Britain since 1977. Origins of the system Henry E. Bliss began working on the Bliss Classification system while working at the City College of New York Library as Assistant Librarian. He was a critic of Melvil Dewey's work with the Dewey Decimal System and believed that organization of titles needed to be done with an intellectual mind frame. Being overly pragmatic or simply alphabetical, would be inadequate. In fact, Bliss is the only theorist who created an organizational scheme based on societal needs. Bliss wanted a classification system that would provide distinct rules yet still be adaptable to whatever kind of collection a library might have, as different libraries have different needs. His solution was the concept of "alternative location," in which a particular subject could be put in more than one place, as long as the library made a specific choice and used it consistently. Bliss discusses his theories and basis of organization for the Bliss Classification for the first time in his 1910 article, "A Modern Classification for Libraries, with Simple Notation, Mnemonics, and Alternatives". This publication followed his 1908 reclassification of the City College collection. His work, Organization of Knowledge and the System of the Sciences was published in four volumes between 1940 and 1953. The four broad underlying policies of the BC system are: alternative location brief, concise notation organizing knowledge according to academic expertise subjects moving gradually from topic to topic as they naturally related to one another. Bliss deliberately avoided the use of the decimal point because of his objection to Dewey's system. Instead he used capital and lower-case letters, numerals, and every typographical symbol available on his extensive and somewhat eccentric typewriter. Single letter codes refer to broad subject areas and further letters are added to refer to increasingly specific subdisciplines. For example, at Lancaster University: T Economics TD Business Economics TDG Management of Industry Adoption and change to BC2 In 1967 the Bliss Classification Association was formed. Its first publication was the Abridged Bliss Classification (ABC), intended for school libraries. In 1977 it began to publish and maintain a revised version of Bliss's system, the Bliss Bibliographic Classification (Second Edition) or BC2. This retains only the broad outlines of Bliss's scheme, replacing most of the detailed notation with a new scheme based on the principles of faceted classification. 15 of approximately 28 volumes of schedules have so far been published. A revision of this nature has been considered by some to be a completely new system. The City College library in New York continued to use Bliss's system until 1967, when it switched to the Library of Congress system. It had become too expensive to train new staff members to use BC, and too expensive to maintain in general. Much of the Bliss stacks remain, however, as no-one has re-cataloged the books. The case was different, however, in Britain. BC proved more popular there and also spread to other English-speaking countries. Part of the reason for its success was that libraries in teachers’ colleges liked the way Bliss had organized the subject areas on teaching and education. By the mid-1950s the system was being used in at least sixty British libraries and in a hundred by the 1970s. The Bliss Classification system has been found to be successful in academic, specialty, government, and law libraries. It has also found success in libraries outside of the United States of America, as many of these libraries do not have a history of using either the Dewey Decimal, or the Library of Congress classification system. The general organizational pattern for classifying titles in the BC2 method are: Agents Operations Properties Materials Processes Parts Types Thing itself Classifications (BC2) The Class Schedule is: 2/9 - Generalia, Phenomena, Knowledge, Information science & technology A/AL - Philosophy & Logic AM/AX - Mathematics, Probability, Statistics AY/B - General science, Physics C - Chemistry D - Space and Earth sciences DG/DY - Earth sciences (includes Geology & Geography) E/GQ - Biological sciences GR/GZ - Applied biological sciences: agriculture and ecology H - Physical Anthropology, Human biology, Health sciences I - Psychology & Psychiatry J - Education K - Society (includes Social sciences, sociology & social anthropology) L/O - History (including area studies, travel and topography, and biography) LA - Archaeology P - Religion, Occult, Morals and ethics Q - Social welfare & Criminology R - Politics & Public administration S - Law T - Economics & Management of economic enterprises U/V - Technology and useful arts (including household management and services) W - The Arts WV/WX - Music X/Y - Language and literature ZA/ZW - Museology See also Colon classification Dewey Decimal Classification Library of Congress Classification Universal Decimal Classification References Bibliography External links Library cataloging and classification Controlled vocabularies
Bolventor () is a hamlet on Bodmin Moor in Cornwall, England, United Kingdom. It is situated in Altarnun civil parish between Launceston and Bodmin. Toponymy The hamlet has been said to take its name from the "Bold Venture" that it must have appeared to build a farm in this moorland, but this is probably folk etymology, as "Bol-" is a common prefix in Cornish placenames. It is much more likely that the name derives from the 'Bold Adventure' tin-working area which was in operation near Jamaica Inn during the 1840s-1850s Jamaica Inn Bolventor is the location of the famous Jamaica Inn coaching inn. It is bypassed by a dual carriageway section of the A30 trunk road; before the bypass was built the hamlet straddled the A30 road. Daphne du Maurier, a former resident, chose Bolventor as the setting for her novel about Cornish smugglers titled Jamaica Inn. The inn that inspired the novel, Jamaica Inn, has stood beside the main road through the village since 1547. It is now a tourist attraction in its own right and dominates the hamlet. The Jamaica Inn was the subject of a paranormal investigation during a 2004 episode of reality television programme Most Haunted. Church The former Holy Trinity Church that lies to the east of the hamlet closed some years ago. A mile from Bolventor there was a chapel of St Luke (from the 13th to the early 16th century): the font is now at the church of Tideford. Bolventor parish was established in 1846 (before that date the village was in St Neot parish; the new parish was made up of parts of St Neot, Altarnun and Cardinham parishes) but has now been merged with Altarnun. 1945 Air Disaster On 14 September 1945 a Royal Air Force Handley Page Halifax Mk VII (PN305) was operating a flight from RAF Tarrant Rushton, Dorset to Lajes Field, Azores, Portugal. During the flight an electrical failure occurred causing a dingy inside the wing to inflate dislodge from stowage. The dingy wrapped around the tail assembly and the aircraft went into a nose dive, crashing into the Priddacombe area of Bolventor. All 21 onboard, seven crew and fourteen passengers died in the crash. References Hamlets in Cornwall Bodmin Moor Aviation accidents and incidents locations in England 1945 disasters in the United Kingdom September 1945 events in the United Kingdom Altarnun
Boomer, or baby boomer, is a child born between 1946 and 1964. Boomer may refer to: People Boomers (Oklahoma settlers), two groups of settlers Boomer (surname) Boomer (nickname) Places Boomer Township, Pottawattamie County, Iowa Boomer Township, Wilkes County, North Carolina Boomer, Missouri Boomer, West Virginia, a census-designated place Boomer Lake, an artificial reservoir in Stillwater, Oklahoma Boomer Island (Tasmania), Australia Animals An adult male kangaroo, nicknamed "boomer" in Australia An alternate name for the mountain beaver A colloquial name for the American red squirrel The greater prairie chicken, a type of grouse native to North America Marc Maron's cat Characters Comics Owen Mercer, the current Captain Boomerang in the DC Comics universe, nicknamed "Boomer" Rotor Walrus, a character from Sonic the Hedgehog, nicknamed "Boomer" in early issues Tabitha Smith, a Marvel Comics comic book superhero, formerly called Boomer Boomer, a canine character, Poncho's best friend, in Pooch Café Video games Boomers, a faction of xenophobic people in Fallout: New Vegas The Boomer, a recurring Special Infected in the Left 4 Dead series Boomers, heavily armored soldiers of the locust horde in the Gears of War series Boomer, a character in the Skylanders video game, known for wielding explosives enthusiastically Boomer, a playable clown character in the Ballz fighting game Boomer, a character that appeared in Super Mario RPG Boomer, a pixl in the game Super Paper Mario Boomer, a canine side-kick in Far Cry 5 Boomer, a Bot in Rocket League Television Lieutenant Boomer, a character in the 1978 television series Battlestar Galactica Sharon Valerii, a character in the 2004 television series Battlestar Galactica, call-sign "Boomer" Dr. Jack "Boomer" Morrison, a character on the U.S. television show St. Elsewhere Boomer, an anthropomorphic tug boat from the 1989 TV series, Tugs Boomer (Bubblegum Crisis), a fictional synthetic life form in the anime series Bubblegum Crisis Boomer, the blond member of the Rowdyruff Boys, a trio of villains in the animated series The Powerpuff Girls Boomer Bledsoe, a member of Roger Klotz' gang in the animated series Doug Boomer, the title character, a dog, in the 1980 TV series Here's Boomer Boomer Parker, one of the twin protagonists of the American sitcom Pair of Kings Boomer, one of the main protagonists in the TV series Redakai: Conquer the Kairu Sue "Boomer" Jenkins, a character in the Australian drama series Wentworth Boomers (TV series), a 2014 BBC One television comedy series Others Boomer, a woodpecker in the 1981 animated Disney film The Fox and the Hound Captain Boomer, a British whaling ship captain who appears briefly in Herman Melville's Moby-Dick Boomer, the redhead tomboy in Burger King Kids Club advertising Boomer, a monument statue by western artist Harold T. Holden, located in Enid, Oklahoma, dedicated in 1987 Boomers, a tentative title for the role-playing game Rifts Coach Boomer, aka Sonic Boom; the coach in the 2005 film Sky High Boomer Badger, character from the National Wildlife Federation's Ranger Rick magazine Sports Teams Australia men's national basketball team, officially nicknamed "Australian Boomers" Bulleen Boomers, a basketball club based in Bulleen, a north-eastern suburb of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia Calgary Boomers, a former professional association football team in Calgary, Alberta, Canada Melbourne Boomers, an Australian women's basketball club Schaumburg Boomers, a Frontier League baseball team based in Schaumburg, Illinois Mascots Boomer (mascot), the mascot of the NBA's Indiana Pacers Boomer, mascot of the Missouri State University Bears Boomer, mascot of the Port Vale F.C., an association football (soccer) club Boomer Baller, mascot of the Kannapolis Cannon Ballers minor league baseball team Boomer the Bear, mascot of the Western Hockey League's Spokane Chiefs Boomer the Bulldog, mascot for Dean College's sports teams Boomer and Sooner, mascots for the University of Oklahoma's sports teams Buzz and Boomer, mascots of the Canadian Football League's Winnipeg Blue Bombers In the military A ballistic missile submarine in American naval slang VT-27, a US Navy training squadron nicknamed the "Boomers" Other uses The Boomers (band), a Canadian rock band from Ontario Boomers! Parks, a theme park / family entertainment center chain Boomer, a freeware pharmacokinetic modeling software See also Boom (disambiguation) Boom Boom (disambiguation)
Bill(s) may refer to: Common meanings Banknote, paper cash (especially in the United States) Bill (law), a proposed law put before a legislature Invoice, commercial document issued by a seller to a buyer Bill, a bird or animal's beak Places Bill, Wyoming, an unincorporated community, United States Billstown, Arkansas, an unincorporated community, United States Billville, Indiana, an unincorporated community, United States People Bill (given name) Bill (surname) Bill (footballer, born 1978), Alessandro Faria, Togolese football forward Bill (footballer, born 1984), Rosimar Amâncio, a Brazilian football forward Bill (footballer, born 1999), Fabricio Rodrigues da Silva Ferreira, a Brazilian forward Arts, media, and entertainment Characters Bill (Kill Bill), a character in the Kill Bill films William “Bill“ S. Preston, Esquire, The first of the titular duo of the Bill & Ted film series A lizard in Lewis Carroll's Alice's Adventures in Wonderland A locomotive with a twin called, Ben in The Railway Series and Thomas & Friends Bill the Cat, a Bloom County character Bill Cipher, a demon in Gravity Falls Bill the Pony and his previous owner Bill Ferny in the novel The Lord of the Rings Bill Potts (Doctor Who), a female companion of the twelfth Doctor in Doctor Who Bill Sikes, main antagonist from Oliver Twist Mr. Bill, a claymation character on Saturday Night Live Sour Bill, a character from Wreck-It Ralph Bill Kerman, fictional character in the computer game Kerbal Space Program Films Bill (1981 film), a 1981 TV film starring Mickey Rooney Bill: On His Own, 1983 sequel to the 1981 film Bill (2015 film), an adventure-comedy film about Shakespeare from the cast of Horrible Histories Bill, the Galactic Hero (film), 2014 science student fiction film based on the 1965 Harry Harrison novel Meet Bill, a 2007 comedy film formerly known as Bill The Bill, a long-running British police TV drama series Music Albums Bill (Bill Cosby album), 1973 Bill (Bill Anderson album), 1973 Bill (Tripping Daisy album), 1992 Songs "Bill" (song), a song from the 1927 musical Show Boat "Bills" (song), a 2015 by LunchMoney Lewis "Bills, Bills, Bills", a 1999 song by Destiny's Child "Bill", a 1996 song by Peggy Scott-Adams "Bills", a 1960 song by Louis Jordan "Bills", a 1962 song by Denny Denson "The Bills", a 1997 piano composition by Carter Pann Printed media Bill, the Galactic Hero, a 1965 science fiction novel by American writer Harry Harrison Bill, the Galactic Hero on the Planet of Bottled Brains, a 1990 novel by Harry Harrison and Robert Sheckley "Bill, the Ventriloquial Rooster", an 1898 sketch story by Australian writer Henry Lawson "The Bill" (short story), a 2013 short story by Hungarian writer László Krasznahorkai Television The Bill, a British police procedural television series The Bill (Inside No. 9), an episode of the British television series Inside No. 9. "Bills", a Series B episode of the television series QI (2004) Weapons Bill (weapon), a weapon similar to a halberd BILL Anti-tank guided weapon, a Swedish anti-tank weapon BILL 2 Anti-tank guided weapon, a Swedish anti-tank weapon Other uses Bill (United States Congress) Bill the Goat, the mascot of the US Naval Academy The Bill (band) Bills (subculture), a Congolese youth subculture in the late 1950s, idolising cowboy Western movies Bill's, a British restaurant chain Buffalo Bills, an American NFL football team Tropical Storm Bill, a list of storms See also Bili (disambiguation) Billie (disambiguation) Billy (disambiguation) Little Bill (disambiguation) Will (disambiguation) William (disambiguation)
Wolf Martin Garber (May 18, 1922 – October 17, 2019), known professionally as Bill Macy, was an American television, film and stage actor known for his role in the CBS television series Maude (1972–1978). Early life Bill Macy was born Wolf Martin Garber on May 18, 1922, in Revere, Massachusetts, the son of Mollie (née Friedopfer; 1889–1986) and Michael Garber (1884–1974), a manufacturer. He was raised Jewish in the East Flatbush section of Brooklyn, New York. After graduating from Samuel J. Tilden High School he served in the United States Army from 1942 to 1946 with the 594th Engineer Boat and Shore Regiment, stationed in the Philippines, Japan and New Guinea. He worked as a cab driver for a decade before being cast as Walter Matthau's understudy in Once More, with Feeling on Broadway in 1958. He portrayed a cab driver on the soap opera The Edge of Night in 1966. Macy was an original cast member of the 1969–1972 Off-Broadway sensation Oh! Calcutta!, performing in the show from 1969 to 1971. He later appeared in the 1972 movie version of the musical. Of appearing fully nude with the rest of the cast in the stage show, he said, "The nudity didn't bother me. I'm from Brooklyn." Macy performed on the P.D.Q. Bach album The Stoned Guest (1970). Television Appreciating Macy's comedic skills off Broadway, Norman Lear brought him to Hollywood, where he first got a small part as a police officer in All in the Family. He was cast in the role of Walter Findlay, the long-suffering husband of the title character on the 1970s television sitcom Maude, starring Bea Arthur. The show ran for six seasons from 1972 to 1978. Strangers on the street often called him "Mr. Maude", consoling him for having such a difficult wife. "I used to tell them that people like that really existed," Macy explained. In 1975, Macy and Samantha Harper Macy appeared on the game show Tattletales. In 1986, Macy was a guest on the fourth episode of L.A. Law, playing an older man whose young wife wants a music career. Also that year he guest starred in an episode of Highway to Heaven, called Cindy. Macy appeared in the television movie Perry Mason: The Case of the Murdered Madam (1987) as banker Richard Wilson. He occasionally appeared on Seinfeld as one of the residents of the Florida retirement community where Jerry Seinfeld's parents lived. Macy made a guest appearance as a patient on Chicago Hope and as an aging gambler on the series Las Vegas. Macy's last television role occurred in a 2010 episode of Jada Pinkett Smith's series Hawthorne. Film Macy appeared as the jury foreman in The Producers in 1967, with the memorable sole line "We find the defendants incredibly guilty". Other memorable roles include the co-inventor of the "Opti-Grab" in the 1979 Steve Martin comedy The Jerk and as the head television writer in My Favourite Year (1982). Other film credits included roles in Death at Love House (1976), The Late Show (1977), Serial (1980), Movers & Shakers (1985), Bad Medicine (1985), Tales from the Darkside (1985 - "Lifebomb" episode), Sibling Rivalry (1990), The Doctor (1991), Me Myself & I (1992), Analyze This (1999), Surviving Christmas (2004), The Holiday (2006), and Mr. Woodcock (2007). Personal life Macy met his future wife, Samantha Harper, on the set of Oh! Calcutta! in 1969. They married in 1975. Macy died on October 17, 2019, at the age of 97; no cause was given. Filmography References External links 1922 births 2019 deaths American male film actors American male television actors People from Revere, Massachusetts American male musical theatre actors American television personalities Male television personalities Place of death missing Jewish American male actors Male actors from Massachusetts 20th-century American male actors 21st-century American male actors 21st-century American Jews
Osama bin Laden (1957–2011) was a Saudi-born terrorist and the leader of al-Qaeda. bin Laden or Bin Laden may also refer to: People bin Laden family, Saudi business family General Bin Laden, former Liberian warlord Tom Adam alias Bin Laden, former Central African warlord Other uses Osama bin Laden (elephant), an elephant that killed at least 27 people in India from 2004 to 2006 "Bin Laden" (song), a 2005 hip hop song by Immortal Technique and Mos Def bin Laden, a nickname for the 500 euro note Arabic-language surnames
In literary criticism, a Bildungsroman (, plural Bildungsromane, ) is a literary genre that focuses on the psychological and moral growth of the protagonist from childhood to adulthood (coming of age), in which character change is important. The term comes from the German words ("education", alternatively "forming") and ("novel"). Origin The term was coined in 1819 by philologist Johann Karl Simon Morgenstern in his university lectures, and was later famously reprised by Wilhelm Dilthey, who legitimized it in 1870 and popularized it in 1905. The genre is further characterized by a number of formal, topical, and thematic features. The term coming-of-age novel is sometimes used interchangeably with bildungsroman, but its use is usually wider and less technical. The birth of the bildungsroman is normally dated to the publication of Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe in 1795–96, or, sometimes, to Christoph Martin Wieland's of 1767. Although the bildungsroman arose in Germany, it has had extensive influence first in Europe and later throughout the world. Thomas Carlyle's English translation of Goethe's novel (1824) and his own Sartor Resartus (1833–34), the first English bildungsroman, inspired many British novelists. In the 20th century, it spread to France and several other countries around the globe. Barbara Whitman noted that the Iliad might be the first Bildungsroman. It is not just "the story of the Trojan War. The Trojan War is in effect the backdrop for the story of Achilles' development. At the beginning Achilles is still a rash youth, making rash decisions which cost dearly to himself and all around him. (...) The story reaches its conclusion when Achilles has reached maturity and allows King Priam to recover Hector's body". The genre translates fairly directly into the cinematic form, the coming-of-age film. Plot outline A bildungsroman is a growing up or "coming of age" of a generally naive person who goes in search of answers to life's questions with the expectation that these will result in gaining experience of the world. The genre evolved from folklore tales of a dunce or youngest child going out in the world to seek their fortune. Usually in the beginning of the story, there is an emotional loss which makes the protagonist leave on their journey. In a bildungsroman, the goal is maturity, and the protagonist achieves it gradually and with difficulty. The genre often features a main conflict between the main character and society. Typically, the values of society are gradually accepted by the protagonist and they are ultimately accepted into society—the protagonist's mistakes and disappointments are over. In some works, the protagonist is able to reach out and help others after having achieved maturity. Franco Moretti "argues that the main conflict in the Bildungsroman is the myth of modernity with its overvaluation of youth and progress as it clashes with the static teleological vision of happiness and reconciliation found in the endings of Goethe's Wilhelm Meister and even Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice". There are many variations and subgenres of bildungsroman that focus on the growth of an individual. An Entwicklungsroman ("development novel") is a story of general growth rather than self-cultivation. An Erziehungsroman ("education novel") focuses on training and formal schooling, while a Künstlerroman ("artist novel") is about the development of an artist and shows a growth of the self. Furthermore, some memoirs and published journals can be regarded as bildungsroman although claiming to be predominantly factual (e.g. The Dharma Bums by Jack Kerouac or The Motorcycle Diaries by Ernesto "Che" Guevara). The term is also more loosely used to describe coming-of-age films and related works in other genres. Examples Precursors , by Ibn Tufail (12th century) (first edition 1554) by Baltasar Gracián (first edition 1651). Usually considered the pioneering work in its modern form. 18th century Memoirs of a Woman of Pleasure (Fanny Hill), by John Cleland (1748) The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling, by Henry Fielding (1749) Candide, by Voltaire (1759) The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman, by Laurence Sterne (1759) , by Christoph Martin Wieland (1767)—often considered the first "true" bildungsroman Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship by Johann Wolfgang Goethe (1795–96) 19th century The Betrothed, by Alessandro Manzoni (1827) The Red and the Black, by Stendhal (1830) Sartor Resartus, by Thomas Carlyle (1833–34) Jane Eyre, by Charlotte Brontë (1847) Wuthering Heights, by Emily Brontë (1847) , by Fyodor Dostoevsky (1849) David Copperfield, by Charles Dickens (1850) Green Henry, by Gottfried Keller (1855) The Morgesons, by Elizabeth Stoddard (1862) Great Expectations, by Charles Dickens (1861) Little Women, by Louisa May Alcott (1869) Sentimental Education, by Gustave Flaubert (1869) The Adolescent, by Fyodor Dostoevsky (1875) What Maisie Knew, by Henry James (1897) 20th century Kim, by Rudyard Kipling (1901) Beneath the Wheel, by Herman Hesse, 1906 Martin Eden, by Jack London (1909) The Book of Khalid, by Ameen Rihani (1911) Sons and Lovers, by D. H. Lawrence (1913) A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, by James Joyce (1916) Demian, by Hermann Hesse (1919) This Side of Paradise, by F. Scott Fitzgerald (1920) The Magic Mountain, by Thomas Mann (1924) , by Bibhutibhushan Bandyopadhyay (1929) The Catcher in the Rye, by J. D. Salinger (1951) Children of Violence, by Doris Lessing (1952–1969) In the Castle of My Skin, by George Lamming (1953) A Separate Peace, by John Knowles (1956) Goodbye, Columbus, by Philip Roth (1959) To Kill a Mockingbird, by Harper Lee (1960) Wake in Fright, by Kenneth Cook (1961) The Emperor of Ice-Cream, by Brian Moore (1965) Dune, by Frank Herbert (1965) The Outsiders, by S. E. Hinton (1967) A Wizard of Earthsea, by Ursula K. Le Guin (1968) Bright Lights, Big City, by Jay McInerney (1984) Ender's Game, by Orson Scott Card (1985) Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit, by Jeanette Winterson (1985) Norwegian Wood, by Haruki Murakami (1987) English Music, by Peter Ackroyd (1992) Harry Potter, by J. K. Rowling (1997) The Perks of Being a Wallflower, by Stephen Chbosky (1999) Naruto, by Masashi Kishimoto (1999) Persepolis, by Marjane Satrapi (2000) 21st century The Secret Life of Bees, by Sue Monk Kidd (2002) The Kite Runner, by Khaled Hosseini (2003) The Fortress of Solitude, by Jonathan Lethem (2003) Never Let Me Go, by Kazuo Ishiguro (2005) Indecision, by Benjamin Kunkel (2005) Black Swan Green, by David Mitchell (2006) Indignation, by Philip Roth (2008) Sputnik Caledonia, by Andrew Crumey (2008) Washington Black, by Esi Edugyan (2018) See also Bildung Künstlerroman Mirrors for princes Roman à clef Notes References Bibliography . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Further reading Revised edition, with bibliographic updates by Charles Bane and Sean M. Flory (Scarecrow Press, 2006). External links The Bildungsroman Project - academic digital humanities project featuring user-submitted articles on genre exemplars and contemporary personal narratives, edited by English literature professor Katherine Carlson Film genres Literary genres 1810s neologisms
A bachelor is a man who is not and has never been married. Etymology A bachelor is first attested as the 12th-century bacheler: a knight bachelor, a knight too young or poor to gather vassals under his own banner. The Old French presumably derives from Provençal and Italian , but the ultimate source of the word is uncertain. The proposed Medieval Latin * ("vassal", "field hand") is only attested late enough that it may have derived from the vernacular languages, rather than from the southern French and northern Spanish Latin . Alternatively, it has been derived from Latin ("a stick"), in reference to the wooden sticks used by knights in training. History From the 14th century, the term "bachelor" was also used for a junior member of a guild (otherwise known as "yeomen") or university and then for low-level ecclesiastics, as young monks and recently appointed canons. As an inferior grade of scholarship, it came to refer to one holding a "bachelor's degree". This sense of or is first attested at the University of Paris in the 13th century in the system of degrees established under the auspices of Pope Gregory IX as applied to scholars still . There were two classes of : the , theological candidates passed for admission to the divinity course, and the , who had completed the course and were entitled to proceed to the higher degrees. In the Victorian era, the term "eligible bachelor" was used in the context of upper class matchmaking, denoting a young man who was not only unmarried and eligible for marriage, but also considered "eligible" in financial and social terms for the prospective bride under discussion. Also in the Victorian era, the term "confirmed bachelor" denoted a man who desired to remain single. By the later 19th century, the term "bachelor" had acquired the general sense of "unmarried man". The expression bachelor party is recorded 1882. In 1895, a feminine equivalent "bachelor-girl" was coined, replaced in US English by "bachelorette" by the mid-1930s. This terminology is now generally seen as antiquated, and has been largely replaced by the gender-neutral term "single" (first recorded 1964). In England and Wales, the term "bachelor" remained the official term used for the purpose of marriage registration until 2005, when it was abolished in favor of "single." Bachelors have been subject to penal laws in many countries, most notably in Ancient Sparta and Rome. At Sparta, men unmarried after a certain age were subject to various penalties (, atimía): they were forbidden to watch women's gymnastics; during the winter, they were made to march naked through the agora singing a song about their dishonor; and they were not provided with the traditional respect due to the elderly. Some Athenian laws were similar. Over time, some punishments developed into no more than a teasing game. In some parts of Germany, for instance, men who were still unmarried by their 30th birthday were made to sweep the stairs of the town hall until kissed by a "virgin". In a 1912 Pittsburgh Press article, there was a suggestion that local bachelors should wear a special pin that identified them as such, or a black necktie to symbolize that "....they [bachelors] should be in perpetual mourning because they are so foolish as to stay unmarried and deprive themselves of the comforts of a wife and home." The idea of a tax on bachelors has existed throughout the centuries. Bachelors in Rome fell under the Lex Julia of 18 BC and the Lex Papia Poppaea of AD 9: these lay heavy fines on unmarried or childless people while providing certain privileges to those with several children. In 1695, a law known as the Marriage Duty Act was imposed on single males over 25 years old by the English Crown to help generate income for the Nine Years' War. In Britain, taxes occasionally fell heavier on bachelors than other persons: examples include 6 & 7 Will. III, the 1785 Tax on Servants, and the 1798 Income Tax. It has been noted by some people such as Francis Bacon that many preeminent men throughout history have been bachelors: Nikola Tesla also made a similar statement: A study that was conducted by professor Charles Waehler at the University of Akron in Ohio on non-married heterosexual males deduced that once non-married men hit middle age, they will be less likely to marry and remain unattached later into their lives. The study concluded that there is only a 1-in-6 chance that men older than 40 will leave the single life, and that after the age 45, the odds fall to 1-in-20. Kenyan psychologist Florence Wamaitha noted that single men have the freedom to interact with people and hence have a deeper connection to the world and that most single males are financially stable as they do not have many family responsibilities. In certain Gulf Arab countries, "bachelor" can refer to men who are single as well as immigrant men married to a spouse residing in their country of origin (due to the high added cost of sponsoring a spouse onsite), and a colloquial term "executive bachelor" is also used in rental and sharing accommodation advertisements to indicate availability to white-collar bachelors in particular. Men who never married Listed chronologically by date of birth. Gallery Bachelorette The term bachelorette is sometimes used to refer to a woman who has never been married. The traditional female equivalent to bachelor is spinster, which is considered pejorative and implies unattractiveness (i.e. old maid, cat lady). The term "bachelorette" has been used in its place, particularly in the context of bachelorette parties and reality TV series The Bachelorette. See also Bachelor pad Men Going Their Own Way Spinster Singleton (lifestyle) References External links Cole, David. "Note on Analyticity and the Definability of 'Bachelor'." Philosophy Department of the University of Minnesota Duluth. 1 February 1999. Marriage Terms for men
Balmoral may refer to: Places Australia Balmoral, New South Wales, a locality of Sydney Balmoral, New South Wales (Lake Macquarie) Balmoral, New South Wales (Southern Highlands) Balmoral, Queensland Balmoral Ridge, Queensland Balmoral, Victoria Belgium Balmoral, a hamlet near the town of Spa, Belgium Canada Balmoral, British Columbia Balmoral, New Brunswick Balmoral Parish, New Brunswick Balmoral Mills, Nova Scotia Balmoral, Ontario, a community in Haldimand County Balmoral Grist Mill Museum, Balmoral Mills, Nova Scotia Balmoral, Manitoba New Zealand Balmoral, New Zealand, a suburb of Auckland Northern Ireland Balmoral (District Electoral Area), an area in south Belfast Balmoral railway station, Belfast Balmoral Golf Club, Belfast The Balmoral Show, an agricultural show that takes place annually near Belfast Balmoral Park, Lisburn, the new location of the Balmoral Show Scotland Balmoral, a suburb of Galashiels Balmoral Castle, a residence of King Charles III in Aberdeenshire, Scotland The Balmoral Hotel in Edinburgh South Africa Balmoral, Mpumalanga, a village and colliery near Witbank United States Balmoral, Louisiana Balmoral, Maryland Balmoral, Tennessee Balmoral, Wisconsin Balmoral Park, Illinois, horse racing track in Crete, Illinois Lakewood Balmoral Historic District, Chicago, Illinois Clothing Balmoral bonnet, an unbrimmed cap common in Highland dress Balmoral (shoe), a type of men's dress shoe Balmoral tartan pattern worn by the British Royal Family Education Balmoral Hall School, Winnipeg, Canada Balmoral High School (Belfast, Northern Ireland) Balmoral Jr Secondary School, North Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada Balmoral School, Auckland, New Zealand Balmoral State High School, Queensland, Australia Food Balmoral Chicken Ships , a passenger ship used for pleasure cruises in the UK , a cruise ship owned and operated by Fred. Olsen Cruise Lines Theater Balmoral (play), a 1987 play by Michael Frayn See also Balmoral Reef Plate, small tectonic plate in the Pacific Ocean north of Fiji Battle of Coral–Balmoral, a series of actions in May and June 1968 during the Vietnam War
Bannock may mean: Bannock (food), a kind of bread, cooked on a stone or griddle Bannock (Indigenous American), various types of bread, usually prepared by pan-frying Bannock people, a Native American people of what is now southeastern Oregon and western Idaho Bannock County, Idaho Bannock, Ohio Bannock Pass, between Idaho and Montana Russell Bannock (1919–2020), Canadian World War II flying ace and test pilot See also Bannack, Montana, town named after the tribe, today a ghost town
Bruin, (from Dutch for "brown"), is an English folk term for brown bear. Bruin, Bruins or BRUIN may also refer to: Places Lake Bruin, ox-bow lake of the Mississippi River located in northeastern Louisiana Lake Bruin State Park Bruin, Kentucky, United States Bruin, Pennsylvania, United States Bruin's Slave Jail, building in Alexandria, Virginia Sports team nicknames and mascots Ayr Bruins, a defunct Scottish ice hockey team Bellevue University, Bellevue, Nebraska Belmont University, Nashville, Tennessee Bob Jones University, Greenville, South Carolina Boston Bruins, an American NHL hockey team UCLA Bruins, a collegiate sports team located in Los Angeles, California Chilliwack Bruins, a former Canadian major junior ice hockey team in Chilliwack, British Columbia George Fox University, Newberg, Oregon Kellogg Community College, Battle Creek, Michigan New Westminster Bruins, a former Canadian major junior ice hockey team in New Westminster, British Columbia Piedmont International University, Winston-Salem, North Carolina Providence Bruins, an American AHL hockey team in Providence, Rhode Island Salt Lake Community College, Salt Lake County, Utah Other uses Bruin (surname) Oud bruin, Belgian beer Heineken Oud Bruin, Dutch beer Yamaha Bruin 350, utility all-terrain vehicle Brown University Interactive Language, a programming language Rasmus Klump, a comic strip published as Bruin Bruin, a brown bear in the Reynard cycle fables See also List of Bruin mascots Ursidae
Black cow or Black Cow can refer to: A root beer float Black Cow Vodka, a brand of vodka made from whey, a byproduct of cheesemaking "Black Cow", a song on Steely Dan's 1977 album Aja See also Black Bull (disambiguation)
Bloody Mary originally referred to: Mary I of England (1516–1558), Queen of England and Ireland, so called because of her persecution of Protestants Bloody Mary may also refer to: Film Urban Legends: Bloody Mary, a 2005 horror film Bloody Mary (2006 film), a 2006 horror film Bloody Mary (2022 film), a 2022 crime drama film Dead Mary or Bloody Mary, a 2007 horror film Literature Bloody Mary (DC Comics), a fictional extraterrestrial vampire Bloody Mary (Helix), a comic book Bloody Mary (Marvel Comics), a fictional telekinetic supervillain Bloody Mary (South Pacific), a character in Tales of the South Pacific by James Michener Music "Bloody Mary" (song), a 2011 song by Lady Gaga "Bloody Mary (Nerve Endings)", a 2012 song by Silversun Pickups "Bloody Mary", a song from the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical South Pacific "Bloody Mary", a 2008 song by the Alice Rose "Bloody Mary (A note on Apathy)", a 2000 song by Five for Fighting from America Town "Un Blodymary", a 2006 song by Las Ketchup, and the Spanish entry for the Eurovision Song Contest 2006 Television "Bloody Mary" (South Park), an episode of the television series South Park "Bloody Mary" (Supernatural), an episode of the television series Supernatural The Bloody Mary Show, a British comedy horror web series "Scary Mary", a 2011 two part episode of R.L. Stine's The Haunting Hour Other uses Bloody Mary (rapper), rapper that was a member of the group Bloods & Crips Bloody Mary (cocktail), a cocktail made with tomato juice, vodka, and typically spices Bloody Mary (folklore), a ghost said to appear in mirrors when a person repeats her name Bloody Mary, a boss in the 1995 action role-playing game Terranigma Typhoon Mary (1960), a deadly typhoon nicknamed "Bloody Mary" by the Joint Typhoon Warning Center See also Agent 077: Mission Bloody Mary, a 1965 adventure film The Legend of Bloody Mary, a 2008 horror film Mary, Mary, Bloody Mary, a 1974 horror film Mary, Bloody Mary, a 1999 YA novel "Un Blodymary", a 2006 song by Las Ketchup Bloody (disambiguation) Mary (disambiguation)
The Black Russian is a cocktail of vodka and kahlua. It contains 50 ml vodka and 20 ml coffee liqueur, per IBA specified ingredients. The drink is made by pouring the vodka and coffee liqueur over ice cubes or cracked ice in an old-fashioned glass and stirring. The Black Russian is often garnished with a lemon slice and a Luxardo maraschino cherry on a stick. History The Black Russian cocktail first appeared in 1949 and is ascribed to Gustave Tops, a Belgian barman, who created it at the Hotel Metropole in Brussels in honor of Perle Mesta, then United States Ambassador to Luxembourg. The cocktail owes its name to the use of vodka, a typical Russian spirit, and the blackness of the coffee liqueur. Variations Dirty Black Russian, tall Black Russian, Australian Black Russian or Colorado bulldog: served in a highball glass and topped up with cola. Black magic: served with a dash of lemon juice and a lemon twist to garnish. Irish Russian or smooth Black Russian: served with a head of Guinness. Brown Russian: served in a highball glass and topped with ginger ale. Belarusian or white Russian: served with milk or cream. Mudslide: served with Irish cream, either fresh cream or ice cream, with or without chocolate sauce rim. Mind eraser: topped up with sparkling water. Paralyzer: Made with cola and milk in addition to vodka and coffee liqueur. See also List of cocktails References Cocktails with vodka Cocktails with coffee liqueur Coffee culture Coffee drinks Alcoholic coffee drinks Two-ingredient cocktails
BRP can mean: Basic Role-Playing game system Biometric Residence permit, a type of card in lieu of visa which allows a non-British citizen to work & reside in the UK. Blue Ridge Parkway Bombardier Recreational Products, Canadian company Brief reactive psychosis British Racing Partnership, former British motor racing team Bathroom privileges Bronx River Parkway in New York Brotherhood of Russian Truth (Bratstvo Russkoy Pravdy), former Russian emigrant organization Barko/Bapor ng Republika ng Pilipinas (ship/steamship of the Republic of the Philippines), Philippine Coast Guard, Philippine Navy, and other government-owned ship name prefix "B.R.P.", song by Victor Jara on album El derecho de vivir en paz Brioche-purl stitch, in brioche knitting Birpara, a town in West Bengal, India
Bunnies & Burrows (B&B) is a role-playing game (RPG) inspired by the 1972 novel Watership Down. Published by Fantasy Games Unlimited in 1976, the game centered on intelligent rabbits. It introduced several innovations to role-playing game design, being the first game to encourage players to have non-humanoid roles, and the first to have detailed martial arts and skill systems. Fantasy Games Unlimited published a similar second edition in 1982. Frog God Games published a revised third edition in 2019 from the original authors. The game was also modified and published by Steve Jackson Games as an official GURPS supplement in 1992. As rabbits, player characters are faced with dangers mirroring those in the real world. The only true "monsters" in the game are humans, but there are many predators and natural hazards. The characters' position in the food chain promotes an emphasis on role-playing and problem solving over combat. History Originally published by Fantasy Games Unlimited in 1976, only two years after the first role-playing game Dungeons & Dragons was published; this edition is now long out of print. The game was inspired by Richard Adams' fantasy novel Watership Down, and the players were given the opportunity to take on the role of rabbits. As such, the game emphasized role-playing over combat for, according to Steffan O'Sullivan, "You're playing a rabbit, after all – how much combat do you want to do?" David M. Ewalt, in his book Of Dice and Men, commented that Bunnies & Burrows "pushed setting even farther" than other early RPGs like Dungeons & Dragons and En Garde!, as the "player characters were intelligent rabbits and had to compete for food, avoid predators, and deal with internal warren politics". Building on this first edition, in 1979, B. Dennis Sustare wrote "Different Worlds Present the World of Druid's Valley: A Bunnies & Burrows Campaign" in Different Worlds, a magazine published by Chaosium. It detailed how to combine the world of Bunnies & Burrows with other fantasy worlds. This was followed by the mini-adventure "The Jackrabbits' Lair", written by Daniel J. Maxfield, in Pegasus, a magazine published by Judges Guild. A second edition of Bunnies & Burrows was printed in 1982 by Fantasy Games Unlimited, although the continuing popularity of the first edition is evidenced by how it was still being actively played in 2008. During a rise of "retro" games in the late 1980s and early 1990s, Steve Jackson Games entered negotiations with Dennis Sustare and Scott Robinson, the current owners of the Bunnies & Burrows copyright, to publish an official GURPS supplement. In 1988, O'Sullivan wrote an unofficial conversion of Bunnies & Burrows to GURPS while the negotiations continued. He indicated that he hoped to one day work on the official supplement. GURPS Bunnies & Burrows was published in 1992. The setting also had an unofficial conversion in 2004 to be used in Risus: The Anything RPG by Boyd Mayberry under their "Rules for Free Fan-Supplements and Articles". In 2019, Frog God Games released a 3rd edition of the game after a successful kickstarter campaign. Gameplay Bunnies & Burrows was the first role-playing game to allow for non-humanoid play. In addition, it was also the first role-playing game to have detailed martial arts rules (renamed "Bun Fu" in GURPS Bunnies & Burrows) and the first attempt at a skill system. For its time, the game was considered by some "light years" ahead of the Original Dungeons & Dragons. Players of Bunnies & Burrows take the role of rabbits as their player characters. Interaction with many different animal species is part of normal gameplay. Humans, whose thought processes and motivations are completely alien, are the only monster to be encountered. Bunnies & Burrows has the advantage of offering players an intuitive grasp of relative dangers and appropriate actions not possible in game worlds that are substantially fictional. For example, a player is told their character is confronted with a fox. There is an immediate intuition on the amount of peril a rabbit is facing. Since player characters are substantially weaker than many of the dangers they face, the game is one of the first to encourage problem solving and outwitting obstacles, rather than out-fighting them. The mechanics of the role-playing game system were created specifically for Bunnies & Burrows, common at the time of its original publishing. It features eight abilities and eight classes. The task resolution system is based on rolls of percentile dice. Although newer systems have updated game mechanics significantly, the ideas presented in Bunnies & Burrows created the framework for modern role-playing games. Reception Steve Jackson reviewed Bunnies & Burrows in The Space Gamer No. 10. Jackson concluded that "B & B is probably worth the retail price [...] at least to a FRP fan. The writing style is intelligent, lucid, and occasionally witty; the rules are workable [...] the art, as I think I pointed out, is so bad it's great; and the whole idea is appealing." Although the game had "incredible role-playing potential", the concept of role-playing rabbits can be viewed as bizarre, and as such at least one commentator believes that most people thought it was stupid when it was first released. This view is mirrored by Lev Lafayette, who, when describing his first exposure to the game, says "You can't do anything!'". Reviews Fantastic Science Fiction v27 n10 The Playboy Winner's Guide to Board Games Publications Books Bunnies & Burrows (1976), Fantasy Games Unlimited Bunnies & Burrows (Second edition) (1982), Fantasy Games Unlimited Bunnies & Burrows (Third edition) (2019), Frog God Games Articles Different Worlds Present the World of Druid's Valley: A Bunnies & Burrows Campaign (B. Dennis Sustare, 1979). Different Worlds, Chaosium The Jackrabbits' Lair (Daniel J. Maxfield). Pegasus, Judges Guild References Fantasy role-playing games Watership Down Fantasy Games Unlimited games Rabbits and hares in popular culture Role-playing games introduced in 1976
Bundaberg Rum, colloquially known as Bundy, is a dark rum owned by Diageo. Is produced in Bundaberg East, Queensland, Australia, by the Bundaberg Distilling Company. In 2010, the Bundaberg Distilling Company was inducted into the Queensland Business Leaders Hall of Fame. History Bundaberg Rum originated because the local sugar mills had a problem with what to do with the waste molasses after the sugar was extracted. Molasses was heavy and difficult to transport, and the costs of converting it to stock feed were rarely worth the effort. Sugar men first began to think of the profits that could be made from distilling. The key meeting was held at the Royal Hotel on 1 August 1885. W. M. C. Hickson served as the chairman, and other notables in attendance included all the big sugar mill owners of that time: W. G. Farquhar, F. L. Nott, T. Austin, J. Gale, S. McDougall, T. Penny, S. H. Bravo and A. H. Young. All became the first directors of the company, which started with a capital of £5,000. The Bundaberg Distilling Company began its operations in 1888, and Bundaberg rum was first produced in 1889. Production ceased from 1907 to 1914, and from 1936 to 1939, after fires, the second of which caused rum from the factory to spill into the nearby Burnett River. Many fish were killed due to the liquor runoff into the river. Christsen Pty Ltd operated their own Bundaberg Rum bottling plant in Bourbong Street, Bundaberg, at the rear of their large grocery and hardware business in the centre of town. The spirit was sold at UP and OP strength from their business. A spokesperson for the original family, Rod Patch, recalled that the shape of the current "Bundy Bottle" originated from bottles of Bushells Coffee and Chicory Essence. Bundaberg residents would sell them to his grandfather for one penny a bottle, after which they were washed and filled with the spirit. The shape remains the same but the capacity has been increased to the current 700ml. Patch's great-grandfather, Hans Truval Christsen, a Danish immigrant from Copenhagen, and his son Frederick Christsen, had a policy of employing staff of The Salvation Army faith in the rum bottling process, because they were less likely to be tempted to sample the spirit. The Christsen family supported settlement farming families through hard times, which was acknowledged with the naming of Christsen Park at Bargara Beach. In 1961, the company introduced the polar bear as its unusual choice of mascot, to imply that the rum could ward off the coldest chill. In 2000, the Bundaberg Rum company and the distillery were sold to British company Diageo. In 2014, a decision by Diageo to relocate the bottling operations of Bundaberg Rum to the western Sydney suburb of Huntingwood resulted in job losses in the city that bears the name of the drink. The decision drew criticism from various levels of Queensland politics. The Premier, Campbell Newman, said it was a disappointing move, particularly for a region that had suffered devastating floods in recent years. Bundaberg mayor, Mal Forman, said, "I'm saddened by the announcement, but I had been assured the company had a commitment to the city ... I understood demand for bottled Bundaberg Rum had declined as more people bought pre-mixed cans, a trend I wanted no part of." A Diageo spokeswoman later clarified the situation, saying some premium products, such as the Master Distillers Collection, would continue to be bottled in Bundaberg. "This was not a decision we have taken lightly, however it is a necessary one to ensure the longer term sustainability of the distillery. We remain absolutely committed to Bundaberg and the distillery and will continue to invest and focus on our core business of distilling, maturing and blending great quality rum in Bundaberg as we have done for the last 125 years." Distillery The Bundaberg Rum distillery is open to visitors for tours of the facility. There is also a museum which offers free samples of Bundaberg Rum products for visitors in a historic Queenslander house. The Big Bundy Bottle is also outside of the bond store. A new $8.5 million visitor centre opened to the public in August 2016 replacing the smaller historic house next door. In 2009 as part of the Q150 celebrations, the Bundaberg Rum Distillery was announced as one of the Q150 Icons of Queensland for its role as a "location". The State Library of Queensland holds correspondence and financial records from the Bundaberg Distilling Co. Ltd. Records for years 1907 to 1946 Variant flavours Bundaberg Rum UP 37% Bundaberg Rum Original 100 Proof 50% Bundaberg Rum Overproof 57.7% Bundaberg Red 37% Bundaberg Red 100 Proof 50% Bundaberg Five 37% Bundaberg Select Vat Aged 6 Years 37% Bundaberg Mutiny Spiced Rum 37% Master Distillers' Collection Small Batch 40% Master Distillers' Collection Small Batch – Vintage Barrel 40% Master Distillers Collection 280 40% Master Distillers Collection Black Barrel – Distilled 2004 – Black Glass 40% Master Distillers Collection Black Barrel – Distilled 2004 – Clear Glass 40% Master Distillers Collection Black Barrel – Distilled 2005 – Clear Glass 40% Master Distillers Collection Blenders Edition 2014 40% Master Distillers Collection Blenders Edition 2015 40% Bundaberg Tropics – Pineapple & Coconut 23.5% Bundaberg Royal Liqueur Banana and Toffee 20% Bundaberg Royal Liqueur Coffee and Chocolate 20% Bundy Wings Heritage Label Original 37% Sponsorship Bundaberg Rum is a major sponsor of the Australian Wallabies rugby union team and also sponsors the Bundaberg Rum Rugby Series. Bundaberg is also a sponsor of the NSW Waratahs. Bundaberg Rum sponsored the rugby league ANZAC Test till 2009. Bundaberg Rum signed a 5-year deal with the NRL to be the official dark rum of the NRL. They are also the naming-rights sponsor of NRL Friday Night Football. From 2009 until 2011, Bundaberg Rum sponsored V8 Supercar team Walkinshaw Racing. Recognition Bundaberg Rum has been distinguished with numerous awards. In 2011, Bundaberg Rum's Master Distillers' Collective rum was launched, with the first three releases, the 10 Year Old, Port Barrel and Golden Reserve, winning awards in the global stage. Advertising Bundaberg Rum has also been criticised for targeting its advertising towards young people and boys, through television commercials during NRL broadcasts, and other promotions. A series of advertisements featuring the Bundaberg Rum bear, a polar bear known as Bundy R. Bear, were produced by advertising agency Leo Burnett to align the product 'with a larrikin approach to Australian mateship'. The Bundaberg Rum bear first appeared in 1961. It was designed to soften rum's aggressive image and broaden its appeal from the traditional older male drinker to a more sociable audience. The advertisements have been cited as a favourite among Australia's youth. See also Bundaberg Brewed Drinks Alcohol Advertising ANZAC Test Beenleigh Rum List of rum producers 1936 Bundaberg distillery fire References External links Bundaberg Rum – official website Diageo – parent company Rums Australian rums Distilleries in Australia Rums of the Pacific Rim Diageo brands Bundaberg East, Queensland Companies based in Queensland Food and drink companies established in 1888 1888 establishments in Australia Australian brands Tourist attractions in Bundaberg Products introduced in 1889 Culture of Queensland Australian companies established in 1888 Queensland cuisine
A Bunsen burner, named after Robert Bunsen, is a kind of ambient air gas burner used as laboratory equipment; it produces a single open gas flame, and is used for heating, sterilization, and combustion. The gas can be natural gas (which is mainly methane) or a liquefied petroleum gas, such as propane, butane, or a mixture. Combustion temperature achieved depends in part on the adiabatic flame temperature of the chosen fuel mixture. History In 1852, the University of Heidelberg hired Bunsen and promised him a new laboratory building. The city of Heidelberg had begun to install coal-gas street lighting, and the university laid gas lines to the new laboratory. The designers of the building intended to use the gas not just for lighting, but also as fuel for burners for laboratory operations. For any burner lamp, it was desirable to maximize the temperature of its flame, and minimize its luminosity (which represented lost heating energy). Bunsen sought to improve existing laboratory burner lamps as regards economy, simplicity, and flame temperature, and adapt them to coal-gas fuel. While the building was under construction in late 1854, Bunsen suggested certain design principles to the university's mechanic, Peter Desaga, and asked him to construct a prototype. Similar principles had been used in an earlier burner design by Michael Faraday, and in a device patented in 1856 by gas engineer R. W. Elsner. The Bunsen/Desaga design generated a hot, sootless, non-luminous flame by mixing the gas with air in a controlled fashion before combustion. Desaga created adjustable slits for air at the bottom of the cylindrical burner, with the flame issuing at the top. When the building opened early in 1855, Desaga had made 50 burners for Bunsen's students. Two years later Bunsen published a description, and many of his colleagues soon adopted the design. Bunsen burners are now used in laboratories around the world. Operation The device in use today safely burns a continuous stream of a flammable gas such as natural gas (which is principally methane) or a liquefied petroleum gas such as propane, butane, or a mixture of both. The hose barb is connected to a gas nozzle on the laboratory bench with rubber tubing. Most laboratory benches are equipped with multiple gas nozzles connected to a central gas source, as well as vacuum, nitrogen, and steam nozzles. The gas then flows up through the base through a small hole at the bottom of the barrel and is directed upward. There are open slots in the side of the tube bottom to admit air into the stream using the Venturi effect, and the gas burns at the top of the tube once ignited by a flame or spark. The most common methods of lighting the burner are using a match or a spark lighter. The amount of air mixed with the gas stream affects the completeness of the combustion reaction. Less air yields an incomplete and thus cooler reaction, while a gas stream well mixed with air provides oxygen in a stoichiometric amount and thus a complete and hotter reaction. The air flow can be controlled by opening or closing the slot openings at the base of the barrel, similar in function to the choke in a carburettor. If the collar at the bottom of the tube is adjusted so more air can mix with the gas before combustion, the flame will burn hotter, appearing blue as a result. If the holes are closed, the gas will only mix with ambient air at the point of combustion, that is, only after it has exited the tube at the top. This reduced mixing produces an incomplete reaction, producing a cooler but brighter yellow, which is often called the "safety flame" or "luminous flame". The yellow flame is luminous due to small soot particles in the flame, which are heated to incandescence. The yellow flame is considered "dirty" because it leaves a layer of carbon on whatever it is heating. When the burner is regulated to produce a hot, blue flame, it can be nearly invisible against some backgrounds. The hottest part of the flame is the tip of the inner flame, while the coolest is the whole inner flame. Increasing the amount of fuel gas flow through the tube by opening the needle valve will increase the size of the flame. However, unless the airflow is adjusted as well, the flame temperature will decrease because an increased amount of gas is now mixed with the same amount of air, starving the flame of oxygen. Generally, the burner is placed underneath a laboratory tripod, which supports a beaker or other container. The burner will often be placed on a suitable heatproof mat to protect the laboratory bench surface. A Bunsen burner is also used in microbiology laboratories to sterilise pieces of equipment and to produce an updraft that forces airborne contaminants away from the working area. Variants Other burners based on the same principle exist. The most important alternatives to the Bunsen burner are: Teclu burner – The lower part of its tube is conical, with a round screw nut below its base. The gap, set by the distance between the nut and the end of the tube, regulates the influx of the air in a way similar to the open slots of the Bunsen burner. The Teclu burner provides better mixing of air and fuel and can achieve higher flame temperatures than the Bunsen burner. Meker burner – The lower part of its tube has more openings with larger total cross-section, admitting more air and facilitating better mixing of air and gas. The tube is wider and its top is covered with a wire grid. The grid separates the flame into an array of smaller flames with a common external envelope, and also prevents flashback to the bottom of the tube, which is a risk at high air-to-fuel ratios and limits the maximum rate of air intake in a conventional Bunsen burner. Flame temperatures of up to are achievable if properly used. The flame also burns without noise, unlike the Bunsen or Teclu burners. Tirrill burner – The base of the burner has a needle valve which allows the regulation of gas intake directly from the burner, rather than from the gas source. Maximum temperature of flame can reach 1560 °C. See also Alcohol burner Heating mantle Meker-Fisher burner References External links Burners Combustion engineering German inventions Laboratory equipment
The Battle of Świecino (named for the village of Świecino, near Żarnowiec Lake, northern Poland) also called the Battle of Żarnowiec or in German Die Schlacht bei Schwetz, took place on September 17, 1462 during the Thirteen Years' War. The Polish forces, commanded by Piotr Dunin and consisting of some 2,000 mercenaries and Poles, decisively defeated the 2,700-man army of the Teutonic Knights, commanded by Fritz Raweneck and Commander of the Order Kaspar Nostitz (Nostyc). Auxiliary forces sent by Duke Eric II of Pomerania, temporary ally of the Teutonic Knights, did not enter the battle. Polish forces The Polish forces consisted mostly of the mercenaries hired by the Polish king, Casimir IV the Jagiellon and the city of Danzig (Gdańsk). This army included 1,000 cavalry, of which 112 were heavy cavalry, and another 1,000 of infantry. 1,000 cavalry and 400 infantry were mercenaries hired by the Polish king, while the rest were units from Danzig (Gdańsk). Teutonic forces Most of the Teutonic army, under the command of Fritz Raweneck and Kaspar Nostitz, were troops gathered from the nearby castles Mewe (Gniew), Stargard (Starogard Gdański), Nowe, Skarszewy, and Stara Kiszewa. This army totalled 1,000 cavalry and 400 infantry. Raweneck also had the supply chain (tabors), cannons, and up to 1,300 auxiliary infantry of Pomeranian peasants, used mainly for fortification works. Battle The battle started in the evening. Adopting a relatively new tactic, Polish units built a fortified camp on the Hussite model consisting of wagons linked by a chain surrounded by a deep ditch (tabor). The units of Raveneck and his subordinate, Kaspar Nostyc (commander from Conitz (Chojnice) also created a tabor. Piotr Dunin decided not to wait for the enemy and attacked first, setting infantry with crossbows on the left, defended by cavalry between the tabor and the coast of the nearby lake of Rogoźnica. Raveneck placed cavalry in front of his tabor, and infantry behind it, without any strategic plan. The first phase of the battle was started by a charge of Polish heavy cavalry under Paweł Jasieński. Fierce fighting continued for three hours and ended without a clear winner. After a short pause at midday, Teutonic units were able to push the Poles back; however, they found themselves under very heavy fire from crossbows of the Polish infantry, which caused huge losses and a withdrawal. During this fight Raveneck was wounded. He stopped his soldiers and tried to attack again, but this charge ended with a total defeat - Raveneck died and the rest of the cavalry surrendered or escaped. The Teutonic infantry tried to defend themselves at the tabor but its resistance was broken by a quick attack of Polish cavalry. At the end of the battle, reinforcements of Eric II of Pomerania appeared, however, seeing the defeat of the Teutonic Knights, the Pomeranian prince did not attack, while the Poles attacked, forcing his troops to flee. Casualties The Teutonic Order's army lost around 1,000 soldiers, including some 300 cavalrymen. Fifty soldiers were captured. The Teutonic commander was also killed in battle and was buried in the Żarnowiec chapter church. The Poles lost just 100 soldiers, although 150 later died from their wounds. Among the dead on the Polish side was Maciej Hagen from Gdańsk. Piotr Dunin was wounded twice. Aftermath The direct result of the battle of Świecino was that the city of Danzig and Pomerania were freed from the danger of an attack by the Teutonic Order. As a result, the royal and municipal armed forces could be used elsewhere in the war, mainly to protect the Vistula waterway and to capture the Teutonic held strongholds. This way that Teutonic forces in Prussia on the right bank of Vistula were cut off from supplies from Western Europe. The psychological significance of the battle was that this was the first open field battle won by the royal forces, so it increased the morale of the Polish forces and lowered the morale of the Teutonic Knights. Many military historians say that the battle of Świecino was the turning point of the Thirteen Years' War, leading to the final Polish victory in 1466. External links [ Świecino near Żarnowiec Lake] Malbork Castle – Battle of Świecino References Janusz Sikorski, Zarys historii wojskowości powszechnej do końca wieku XIX. [Universal history of military operations till 1900], Wojskowy Instytut Historyczny, Wydawnictwo Ministerstwa Obrony Narodowej, Warszawa 1972. – description of the battle of Świecino: pp. 287–288, map of the battle of Świecino: p. 288 Janusz Sikorski (ed.), Wiesław Majewski, Tadeusz Marian Nowak, Jerzy Teodorczyk, Polskie tradycje wojskowe. Tradycje walk obronnych z najazdami Niemców, Krzyżaków, Szwedów, Turków i Tatarów X–XVII w. [Polish military traditions. Tradition of defence struggles with the invasions of the Germans, Teutonic Knights, Swedes, Turks and Tartars in 10th–17th centuries]. Wojskowy Instytut Historyczny, Wydawnictwo Ministerstwa Obrony Narodowej, Warszawa 1990. – description of the battle of Świecino: p. 127, map of the battle of Świecino: p. 114 Stanisław Herbst, Wojna Trzynastoletnia – O bitwie pod Świecinem. [The Thirteen Years' War – About the Battle of Świecino], Przegląd Historyczno–Wojskowy, vol. 7: 1934/1935, issue 2, pp. 309–311, reprinted in: Stanisław Herbst, Potrzeba historii czyli o polskim stylu życia. Wybór pism. Państwowy Instytut Wydawniczy, Warszawa 1978 K. Górski, Pomorze w dobie wojny trzynastoletniej. [Pomerania during the Thirteen Years' War], Poznań 1932 – description and 3 maps of the battle of Świecino: p. 308 Marian Biskup, Druga faza wojny trzynastoletniej (1462–1466). [Second phase of the Thirteen Years' War 1462–1466], in: Gerard Labuda (ed.), Historia Pomorza. [History of Pomerania], Wydawnictwo Poznańskie, Poznań 1972, – description of the battle of Świecino: p. 738 Świecino, in: Róża Ostrowska, Izabela Trojanowska, Bedeker Kaszubski, Wydawcnictwo Morskie, Gdańsk 1974 Świecino, in: Tadeusz Bolduan, Nowy bedeker kaszubski, Gdańsk 1997 1462 in Europe Swiecino Conflicts in 1462
Blackridge is a community in eastern Allegheny County and is a suburb of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States. This community consists of approximately 650 private homes built from 1920 to 1949. Blackridge Estates was and remains one of the area's largest residential communities. Blackridge lies in the municipalities of Wilkinsburg, Penn Hills and Churchill. It maintains a Civic Association and a private park and swim club for residents. Blackridge is defined as the territory bounded on the West by Graham Boulevard, on the South by William Penn Highway, on the East by Beulah Road and the Churchill Country Club property, from the Churchill Country Club property along Orlando Place to Atkinson Place, Atkinson Place to Pine Way, and Pine Way to Graham Boulevard, and includes the properties fronting on both sides of said portions of Country Club Drive, Orlando Place, Atkinson Place and Pine Way. The Pittsburgh History and Landmarks Foundation Historic Landmark "1939 House" (Good Housekeeping house) is located in Blackridge at 2363 Sebring Place in the Wilkinsburg section of the neighborhood. References External links Blackridge Civic Association Blackridge Garden Club Blackridge Swim Club Unincorporated communities in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania Unincorporated communities in Pennsylvania
BND may refer to: Organisations Federal Intelligence Service (Germany) (), the foreign intelligence agency of Germany Federal Intelligence Service (disambiguation) Bank of North Dakota, a state-owned and -run financial institution, based in Bismarck, North Dakota, USA Belleville News-Democrat, a newspaper in Belleville, Illinois, USA Bulgarian New Democracy (), a Bulgarian centre-right political party VID (company) (), a Russian TV company Business & Decision (stock ticker: BND), a consulting company Banco Nacional de Desarrollo, the national development bank, for banking in Nicaragua National Digital Library () of Moldova; part of the National Library of Moldova By codename Brunei dollar, currency of the Sultanate of Brunei, by ISO 4217 code Banda language (Maluku) (ISO 639 language code: bnd), found in Indonesia Brandon railway station (National Rail station code: BND), Suffolk, England, UK Bandar Abbas International Airport (IATA airport code BND; ICAO airport code: OIKB), Bandar Abbas, Hormozgan Province, Iran Other uses Buy Nothing Day, an international day of protest against consumerism BTEC National Diploma, a further-education qualification in most of the United Kingdom "BND", a song on the album No Doubt by No Doubt Bnd, short for "Bend"; a Street suffix as used in the US See also Band (disambiguation) Bend (disambiguation) Bind (disambiguation) Bond (disambiguation) Bound (disambiguation) Bund (disambiguation)
Breathy voice (also called murmured voice, whispery voice, soughing and susurration) is a phonation in which the vocal folds vibrate, as they do in normal (modal) voicing, but are adjusted to let more air escape which produces a sighing-like sound. A simple breathy phonation, (not actually a fricative consonant, as a literal reading of the IPA chart would suggest), can sometimes be heard as an allophone of English between vowels, such as in the word behind, for some speakers. In the context of the Indo-Aryan languages like Sanskrit and Hindi and comparative Indo-European studies, breathy consonants are often called voiced aspirated, as in the Hindi and Sanskrit stops normally denoted bh, dh, ḍh, jh, and gh and the reconstructed Proto-Indo-European phonemes bʰ,dʰ,ǵʰ,gʰ,gʷʰ. , as breathy voice is a different type of phonation from aspiration. However, breathy and aspirated stops are acoustically similar in that in both cases there is a delay in the onset of full voicing. In the history of several languages, like Greek and some varieties of Chinese, breathy stops have developed into aspirated stops. Classification and terminology There is some confusion as to the nature of murmured phonation. The International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) and authors such as Peter Ladefoged equate phonemically contrastive murmur with breathy voice in which the vocal folds are held with lower tension (and farther apart) than in modal voice, with a concomitant increase in airflow and slower vibration of the glottis. In that model, murmur is a point in a continuum of glottal aperture between modal voice and breath phonation (voicelessness). Others, such as Laver, Catford, Trask and the authors of the Voice Quality Symbols (VoQS), equate murmur with whispery voice in which the vocal folds or, at least, the anterior part of the vocal folds vibrates, as in modal voice, but the arytenoid cartilages are held apart to allow a large turbulent airflow between them. In that model, murmur is a compound phonation of approximately modal voice plus whisper. It is possible that the realization of murmur varies among individuals or languages. The IPA uses the term "breathy voice", but VoQS uses the term "whispery voice". Both accept the term "murmur", popularised by Ladefoged. Transcription A stop with breathy release or a breathy nasal is transcribed in the IPA as etc. or as etc. Breathy vowels are most often written etc. Indication of breathy voice by using subscript diaeresis was approved in or before June 1976 by members of the council of International Phonetic Association. In VoQS, the notation } is used for whispery voice (or murmur), and } is used for breathy voice. Some authors, such as Laver, suggest the alternative transcription (rather than IPA ) as the correct analysis of Gujarati , but it could be confused with the replacement of modal voicing in voiced segments with whispered phonation, conventionally transcribed with the diacritic . Methods of production There are several ways to produce breathy sounds such as . One is to hold the vocal folds apart, so that they are lax as they are for , but to increase the volume of airflow so that they vibrate loosely. A second is to bring the vocal folds closer together along their entire length than in voiceless , but not as close as in modally voiced sounds such as vowels. This results in an airflow intermediate between and vowels, and is the case with English intervocalic /h/. A third is to constrict the glottis, but separate the arytenoid cartilages that control one end. This results in the vocal folds being drawn together for voicing in the back, but separated to allow the passage of large volumes of air in the front. This is the situation with Hindi. The distinction between the latter two of these realizations, vocal folds somewhat separated along their length (breathy voice) and vocal folds together with the arytenoids making an opening (whispery voice), is phonetically relevant in White Hmong (Hmong Daw). Phonological property A number of languages use breathy voicing in a phonologically contrastive way. Many Indo-Aryan languages, such as Hindi, typically have a four-way contrast among plosives and affricates (voiced, breathy, tenuis, aspirated) and a two-way contrast among nasals (voiced, breathy). The Nguni languages within the southern branch of the Bantu languages, including Phuthi, Xhosa, Zulu, Southern Ndebele and Swazi, also have contrastive breathy voice. In the case of Xhosa, there is a four-way contrast analogous to Indic in oral clicks, and similarly a two-way contrast among nasal clicks, but a three-way contrast among plosives and affricates (breathy, aspirated, and ejective), and two-way contrasts among fricatives (voiceless and breathy) and nasals (voiced and breathy). In some Bantu languages, historically breathy stops have been phonetically devoiced, but the four-way contrast in the system has been retained. In all five of the southeastern Bantu languages named, the breathy stops (even if they are realised phonetically as devoiced aspirates) have a marked tone-lowering (or tone-depressing) effect on the following tautosyllabic vowels. For this reason, such stop consonants are frequently referred to in the local linguistic literature as 'depressor' stops. Swazi, and to a greater extent Phuthi, display good evidence that breathy voicing can be used as a morphological property independent of any consonant voicing value. For example, in both languages, the standard morphological mechanism for achieving the morphosyntactic copula is to simply execute the noun prefix syllable as breathy (or 'depressed'). In Portuguese, vowels after the stressed syllable can be pronounced with breathy voice. Gujarati is unusual in contrasting breathy vowels and consonants: 'twelve', 'outside', 'burden'. Tsumkwe Juǀ'hoan makes the following rare distinctions : fall, land (of a bird etc.); walk; herb species; and /n|ʱoaᵑ/ greedy person; /n|oaʱᵑ/ cat. Breathy stops in Punjabi lost their phonation, merging with voiceless and voiced stops in various positions, and a system of high and low tones developed in syllables that formerly had these sounds. Breathy voice can also be observed in place of debuccalized coda in some dialects of colloquial Spanish, e.g. for . See also Aspirated consonant Creaky voice Guttural Index of phonetics articles Slack voice Voiced glottal fricative Whispering References Phonation
In mathematics, Bézout's identity (also called Bézout's lemma), named after Étienne Bézout who proved it for polynomials, is the following theorem: Here the greatest common divisor of and is taken to be . The integers and are called Bézout coefficients for ; they are not unique. A pair of Bézout coefficients can be computed by the extended Euclidean algorithm, and this pair is, in the case of integers one of the two pairs such that and equality occurs only if one of and is a multiple of the other. As an example, the greatest common divisor of 15 and 69 is 3, and 3 can be written as a combination of 15 and 69 as with Bézout coefficients −9 and 2. Many other theorems in elementary number theory, such as Euclid's lemma or the Chinese remainder theorem, result from Bézout's identity. A Bézout domain is an integral domain in which Bézout's identity holds. In particular, Bézout's identity holds in principal ideal domains. Every theorem that results from Bézout's identity is thus true in all principal ideal domains. Structure of solutions If and are not both zero and one pair of Bézout coefficients has been computed (for example, using the extended Euclidean algorithm), all pairs can be represented in the form where is an arbitrary integer, is the greatest common divisor of and , and the fractions simplify to integers. If and are both nonzero, then exactly two of these pairs of Bézout coefficients satisfy and equality may occur only if one of and divides the other. This relies on a property of Euclidean division: given two non-zero integers and , if does not divide , there is exactly one pair such that and and another one such that and The two pairs of small Bézout's coefficients are obtained from the given one by choosing for in the above formula either of the two integers next to . The extended Euclidean algorithm always produces one of these two minimal pairs. Example Let and , then . Then the following Bézout's identities are had, with the Bézout coefficients written in red for the minimal pairs and in blue for the other ones. If is the original pair of Bézout coefficients, then yields the minimal pairs via , respectively ; that is, , and . Proof Given any nonzero integers and , let The set is nonempty since it contains either or (with and ). Since is a nonempty set of positive integers, it has a minimum element , by the well-ordering principle. To prove that is the greatest common divisor of and , it must be proven that is a common divisor of and , and that for any other common divisor , one has The Euclidean division of by may be written The remainder is in , because Thus is of the form , and hence However, and is the smallest positive integer in : the remainder can therefore not be in , making necessarily 0. This implies that is a divisor of . Similarly is also a divisor of , and therefore is a common divisor of and . Now, let be any common divisor of and ; that is, there exist and such that and One has thus That is, is a divisor of . Since this implies Generalizations For three or more integers Bézout's identity can be extended to more than two integers: if then there are integers such that has the following properties: d is the smallest positive integer of this form every number of this form is a multiple of d For polynomials Bézout's identity does not always hold for polynomials. For example, when working in the polynomial ring of integers: the greatest common divisor of and is x, but there does not exist any integer-coefficient polynomials p and q satisfying . However, Bézout's identity works for univariate polynomials over a field exactly in the same ways as for integers. In particular the Bézout's coefficients and the greatest common divisor may be computed with the extended Euclidean algorithm. As the common roots of two polynomials are the roots of their greatest common divisor, Bézout's identity and fundamental theorem of algebra imply the following result: The generalization of this result to any number of polynomials and indeterminates is Hilbert's Nullstellensatz. For principal ideal domains As noted in the introduction, Bézout's identity works not only in the ring of integers, but also in any other principal ideal domain (PID). That is, if is a PID, and and are elements of , and is a greatest common divisor of and , then there are elements and in such that The reason is that the ideal is principal and equal to An integral domain in which Bézout's identity holds is called a Bézout domain. History French mathematician Étienne Bézout (1730–1783) proved this identity for polynomials. This statement for integers can be found already in the work of an earlier French mathematician, Claude Gaspard Bachet de Méziriac (1581–1638). See also , an analogue of Bézout's identity for homogeneous polynomials in three indeterminates Notes External links Online calculator for Bézout's identity. Articles containing proofs Diophantine equations Lemmas in number theory
A bokken (, , "wood", and ken, "sword") (or a bokutō ) is a Japanese wooden sword used for training in kenjutsu. It is usually the size and shape of a katana, but is sometimes shaped like other swords, such as the wakizashi and tantō. Some ornamental bokken are decorated with mother-of-pearl work and elaborate carvings. Sometimes it is spelled "boken" in English. Bokken are traditionally composed of red oak or white oak, although any hardwood can be used. In comparison, practice swords made of flexible, soft wood such as bamboo are referred to as shinai. History It is hard to determine precisely when the first bokken appeared due to secrecy in ancient martial arts training and loose record-keeping. While various mock weapons were surely used during the earlier periods of Japanese history, usage of bokken in their modern form first emerged during the Muromachi Period (1336–1600) for the training of samurai warriors in the various ryū (schools of martial arts and swordsmanship) of the era. If a steel katana is repeatedly used, it can easily become nicked and the edge flawed, potentially leading to a broken expensive sword. Bokken are safer than fighting with real swords, and are considerably more durable; a wielder can make contact with other trainee's swords with little fear of damage. While bokken are safer for sparring and practice than katana, they are still lethal weapons in the hands of trained users. A famous legend to this effect exists involves Miyamoto Musashi, a ronin known to fight fully armed foes with only one or two bokken. According to the story, he agreed to a duel with Sasaki Kojiro at the early morning on Ganryūjima, a tiny sandbar between Kyushu and Honshu. Musashi overslept the morning of the duel, however, and made his way to the duel late. He carved a bokken from an oar with his knife while traveling on a boat to the duel. At the duel, Sasaki was armed with his large nodachi, yet Musashi crushed Sasaki's skull with a single blow from his bokken, killing him. While many elements of the story are likely apocryphal, the potential danger of a bokken from the legend is real. Before the Meiji era, bokken were very likely manufactured by woodworkers not specialized in bokken manufacture. At the beginning of the 20th century bokken manufacture started more formally, mainly in Miyakonojō, a city on Kyushu Island. The last four remaining bokken workshops of Japan are still located in Miyakonojō. Another notable spot where bokken were manufactured and sold as tourist souvenirs was Aizuwakamatsu; the resulting bokken were frequently inscribed with the markings of the Byakkotai, a youth battalion that committed mass suicide nearby during the Battle of Aizu. During the late Showa era in the 1970s and 1980s, these suicides were romanticized as a bold and heroic act, and bokken marked with their emblem sold well. The "standard bokken", mostly used in Kendo, Iaido, and Aikido, was created by master Aramaki Yasuo in collaboration with the All Japan Kendo Federation in the 1950s and was the first standardized bokken ever created. Usage The bokken is used as an inexpensive and relatively safe substitute for a real sword in several martial arts such as aikido, kendo, iaido, kenjutsu, and jodo. Its simple wooden construction demands less care and maintenance than a katana. In addition, training with a bokken does not carry the same mortal risk associated with that of a sharp metal sword, both for the user and other practitioners nearby. While its use has several advantages over use of a live edged weapon, it can still be deadly, and any training with a bokken should be done with due care. Injuries occurring from bokken are very similar to those caused by clubs and similar battering weapons and include compound fractures, ruptured organs, and other such blunt force injuries. In some ways, a bokken can be more dangerous as the injuries caused are often unseen and inexperienced practitioners may underestimate the risk of harm. It is not a sparring weapon, but is intended to be used in kata and to acclimate the student to the feel of a real sword. For sparring, a bamboo shinai is typically used instead, for obvious safety reasons. In 2003, the All Japan Kendo Federation (AJKF) introduced a set of basic exercises using a bokutō called Bokutō Ni Yoru Kendō Kihon-waza Keiko-hō. This form of practice is intended primarily for kendo practitioners up to Nidan ranking, but can be beneficial for all kendo students. Suburitō (素振り刀) are bokken designed for use in suburi. Suburi (素振り), literally "bare swinging," are solo cutting exercises. Suburitō are thicker and heavier than normal bokken and users of suburitō must therefore develop both strength and technique. Their weight makes them unsuitable for paired practice and solo forms. Miyamoto Musashi's bokken made of an oar in his legendary duel with Sasaki Kojiro was presumably a suburitō-sized bokken. As late as 2015, bokken were issued to the Los Angeles Police Mounted Unit for use as batons. Types Bokken can be made to represent any style of weapon required such as nagamaki, nodachi, yari, naginata, kama, etc. The most widely used styles are: daitō or tachi (katana-sized), long sword shōtō or kodachi or wakizashi bō (wakizashi-sized), short sword tantō bō (tantō-sized) suburitō can be made in daitō and shōtō sizes Additionally, various koryu (traditional Japanese martial arts) have their own distinct styles of bokken which can vary slightly in length, tip shape, or in whether or not a tsuba (hilt guard) is added. The All Japan Kendo Federation specify the dimensions of bokken for use in the modern kendo kata, called Nippon kendo kata. Tachi: Total length, approx. ; tsuka (handle) approx. . Kodachi: Total length, approx. ; tsuka (handle) approx. . Bokken are traditionally composed of red oak or white oak, with white oak varieties being slightly more expensive and prestigious. Other common tree varieties used included ebony, biwa, and sunuke in Japan, and hickory, persimmon, ironwood, and walnut for trees native to the Americas. Biwa trees were used at least partially due to a folk superstition that wounds inflicted by biwa wood would never heal. See also Aiki-ken Iaido Jō Kendō/Kenjutsu Kinomichi Waster References External links A discussion of different woods with regard to bokken design, focusing particularly on durability Information about making or selecting a bokken (Wayback Machine copy) Samurai weapons and equipment Practice swords of Japan
BMI may refer to: Companies and organizations BMI Foundation, founded by Broadcast Music Incorporated BMI Healthcare, UK BMI Film & TV Awards BMI Research, a research firm Flybmi airline, formerly BMI Regional and a BMI mainline subsidiary Bmibaby.com, former airline, BMI subsidiary British Midland International, a UK airline incorporated into BA Baltimore Museum of Industry Bank of Makati, a Philippine bank Bank Melli Iran, the first national Iranian bank Best Motoring International, a Japanese magazine Birmingham and Midland Institute, England Broadcast Music, Inc., a collecting society for composers' copyrights Bundesministerium des Innern, the German Federal Ministry of the Interior Bureau of Military Information, US Civil War agency Other Body mass index of weight in relation to height BMI Awards, annual award ceremonies for songwriters Bit Manipulation Instruction Sets for x86 microprocessors Brain Machine Interface Central Illinois Regional Airport, IATA code See also
BSA may refer to: Businesses and organizations Basketball South Africa Bearing Specialists Association, an American trade association Belarusian Socialist Assembly Bibliographical Society of America Birmingham Small Arms Company, UK manufacturer of firearms and vehicles Black Sky Aerospace, an Australian aerospace company Black Socialists in America Boston Society of Architects Botanical Society of America Boy Scouts of America Scouts BSA, the flagship program British Social Attitudes Survey British Sandwich & Food to Go Association British Science Association British Sociological Association British Speleological Association British Stammering Association Broadcasting Service Association, the former name of the Australian radio network Macquarie Media Broadcasting Standards Authority, a New Zealand statutory authority BSA Company, motorcycle manufacturer BSA motorcycles, made by the Birmingham Small Arms Company Limited The Software Alliance, a trade group established by Microsoft and formerly called Business Software Alliance BSA Manufacturing, a Malaysian manufacturer of aluminum alloy wheels Business Services Association, of UK service providers Schools Baltimore School for the Arts Birmingham School of Acting British School at Athens Science and medicine Behavioral systems analysis Bis(trimethylsilyl)acetamide Body surface area Bovine serum albumin Broad-spectrum antiviral drug Other uses Bank Secrecy Act, US Bilateral Security Agreement, US umbrella for military cooperation Bosnian Serb Army, the Army of Republika Srpska, the former armed forces of the Republika Srpska Bachelor of Science and Arts (BSA) Bachelor of Science in Accountancy (BSA) Bachelor of Science in Agriculture (B.S.A.) British Soap Awards, an awards ceremony in the UK BSA, a brand of bicycles produced by Tube Investments of India Business systems analyst Blue Dragon Series Awards, an annual award ceremony in South Korea See also
Bovril is the trademarked name of a thick and salty meat extract paste, similar to a yeast extract, developed in the 1870s by John Lawson Johnston. It is sold in a distinctive bulbous jar and as cubes and granules. Bovril is owned and distributed by Unilever UK. Its appearance is similar to the British Marmite and its Australian equivalent Vegemite; however, unlike these products, Bovril is not vegetarian. Bovril can be made into a drink (referred to in the UK as a "beef tea") by diluting with hot water or, less commonly, with milk. It can be used as a flavouring for soups, broth, stews or porridge, or as a spread, especially on toast in a similar fashion to Marmite and Vegemite. Etymology The first part of the product's name comes from Latin , meaning "ox". Johnston took the -vril suffix from Edward Bulwer-Lytton's then-popular novel, The Coming Race (1871), the plot of which revolves around a superior race of people, the Vril-ya, who derive their powers from an electromagnetic substance named "Vril". Therefore, Bovril indicates great strength obtained from an ox. History In 1870, in the Franco-Prussian War, Napoleon III ordered one million cans of beef to feed his troops. The task of providing this went to John Lawson Johnston, a Scottish butcher living in Canada. Large quantities of beef were available across the British Dominions and South America, but transport and storage were problematic. Therefore, Johnston created a product known as 'Johnston's Fluid Beef', later called Bovril, to meet Napoleon's needs. By 1888, over 3,000 UK public houses, grocers and dispensing chemists were selling Bovril. In 1889, Bovril Ltd was formed to develop Johnston's business further. During the 1900 Siege of Ladysmith in the Second Boer War, a Bovril-like paste was produced from horsemeat within the garrison. Nicknamed Chevril (a portmanteau of Bovril and cheval, French for horse) it was made by boiling down horse or mule meat to a jelly and serving it as a beef tea-like mixture. Bovril also produced concentrated, pemmican-like dried beef as part of the British Army emergency field ration during the war. The ration came in the form of a pocket-sized tin can that contained the beef on one half alongside a dried cocoa drink on another half. The dried beef could be eaten alone, or mixed with water to create a beef tea. Bovril continued to function as a "war food" in World War I and was frequently mentioned in the 1930 account Not So Quiet: Stepdaughters of War by Helen Zenna Smith. It describes the drink being prepared for the casualties at Mons where "the orderlies were just beginning to make Bovril for the wounded, when the bearers and ambulance wagons were shelled as they were bringing the wounded into the hospital". Bovril beef tea was the only hot drink that Ernest Shackleton's team had when they were marooned on Elephant Island during the 1914–1917 Endurance Expedition. When John Lawson Johnston died, his son George Lawson Johnston inherited and took over the Bovril business. In 1929, George Lawson Johnston was made Baron Luke, of Pavenham, in the county of Bedford. Bovril's instant beef stock was launched in 1966 and its "King of Beef" range of instant flavours for stews, casseroles and gravy in 1971. In 1971, James Goldsmith's Cavenham Foods acquired the Bovril Company but then sold most of its dairies and South American operations to finance further take-overs. The brand is now owned by the Anglo-Dutch multinational Unilever, which bought Bovril in 2001. In 2004, Unilever removed beef ingredients from the Bovril formula, rendering it vegetarian. This was mainly due to concerns about decreasing sales, particularly from exports due to an export ban on British beef, as a result of the growing popularity of vegetarianism, religious dietary requirements, and public concerns about bovine spongiform encephalopathy. In 2006, Unilever reversed that decision and reintroduced beef ingredients to their Bovril formula once sales increased and the beef export bans were lifted. Unilever now produces Bovril using beef extract and a chicken variety using chicken extract. In November 2020, Forest Green Rovers Football Club announced a collaboration with the makers of Bovril to create a beet-based version of Bovril to be sold at their New Lawn stadium, where meat-based products had been removed from sale some years prior. Licensed production Bovril is produced in South Africa by the Bokomo division of Pioneer Foods. Cultural significance Bovril was promoted as a superfood in the early 20th century. Advertisements recommended people to dilute it into a tea or spread it on their morning toast. Some adverts even claimed that Bovril could protect one from influenza. Bovril jars are commonly excavated as part of archaeological assemblages, such as at Knowles Mill in Worcestershire. Since its invention, Bovril has become an icon of British culture. It is associated with football culture. During the winter British football fans in stadium terraces drink it as a tea from Thermos flasks – or from disposable cups in Scotland, where thermoses are banned from football stadiums.Bovril holds the unusual distinction of having been advertised with a Pope. An advertising campaign of the early 20th century in Britain depicted Pope Leo XIII seated on his throne, bearing a mug of Bovril. The campaign slogan read: The Two Infallible Powers – The Pope & Bovril. In the film In Which We Serve, the officers on the bridge are served "Bovril rather heavily laced with sherry" to warm them up, after being rescued during the Dunkirk evacuation of the British Expeditionary Force. British mountaineer Chris Bonington appeared in TV commercials for Bovril in the 1970s and 1980s in which he recalled melting snow and ice on Everest to make hot drinks. See also Bonox Liebig's Extract of Meat Portable soup Oxo References External links Unilever Website Unilever explains the reintroduction of beef to Bovril. BBC: No beef over Bovril's veggie move The Bovril Shrine Drink brands Food brands of the United Kingdom Products introduced in 1888 Scottish drinks Scottish brands Scottish inventions Umami enhancers Unilever brands James Goldsmith
Benjamin David Santer (born June 3, 1955) is a climate researcher at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory and former researcher at the University of East Anglia's Climatic Research Unit. He also worked at the Max Planck Institute for Meteorology from 1987 to 1992. He specializes mainly in statistical analysis of climate data sets, and detection/attribution of climate change forcings. Since 2012, Santer has been listed on the board of directors of the National Center for Science Education. Honors Santer received a B.Sc. in Environmental Sciences and a 1987 Ph.D. in Climatology from the Climatic Research Unit of the University of East Anglia. In 1998 Santer was awarded a MacArthur Fellowship for research supporting the finding that human activity contributes to global warming. He has also received the Ernest Orlando Lawrence Award and a Distinguished Scientist Fellowship from the U.S. Department of Energy and the Norbert Gerbier/MUMM award from the World Meteorological Organization. He ranked twelfth amongst climate scientists in a 2002 assessment of most cited scientists in the field of global warming. In 2011, Santer was elected as a fellow of the American Geophysical Union and as a member of the National Academy of Sciences. 1995 AR2 Chapter 8 Santer was the convening Lead Author of Chapter 8 of 1995 IPCC Working Group I Report (AR2 WGI), which addressed the global warming issue. In a June 12, 1996 editorial-page piece in The Wall Street Journal, Frederick Seitz, chair of the George C. Marshall Institute and Science and Environmental Policy Project, claimed that alterations made to Chapter 8 of the 1995 IPCC report were made to "deceive policy makers and the public into believing that the scientific evidence shows human activities are causing global warming." Similar charges were made by the Global Climate Coalition (GCC), a consortium of industry interests; specifically, they accused Santer of "scientific cleansing." Santer and 40 other scientists responded to The Wall Street Journal that all IPCC procedural rules were followed, and that IPCC procedures required changes to the draft in response to comments from governments, individual scientists, and non-governmental organizations. They stated that the pre- and post-Madrid versions of Chapter 8 were equally cautious in their statements; that roughly 20% of Chapter 8 is devoted to the discussion of uncertainties in estimates of natural climate variability and the expected signal due to human activities; and that both versions of the chapter reached the same conclusion: "Taken together, these results point towards a human influence on climate." Gold Standard Paper On February 25, 2019 Santer et al. published the paper Celebrating the anniversary of three key events in climate change science in Nature Climate Change, claiming to have reached the 5-sigma "gold standard level" of statistical proof of human influence in global climate change using three sets of satellite data. References and notes Further reading Santer, BD, Wigley, TML, Barnett TP, and Anyamba, E (1995). Detection of climate change and attribution of causes, in Houghton, JT et al.. Climate Change 1995, Cambridge Univ. Press. "Benjamin David Santer." Marquis Who's Who TM. Marquis Who's Who, 2009. Reproduced in Biography Resource Center. Farmington Hills, Michigan: Gale, 2009. http://galenet.galegroup.com/servlet/BioRC Document Number: K2017060303. Fee. Accessed 2009-10-22 via Fairfax County Public Library. External links The Many Travails of Ben Santer, Paul D. Thacker, Environmental Science & Technology 2002 Interview Communication between Santer and others about Global Warming National Energy Research Science Computer Center article on Santer (starts page 38) Recent (2011) research by Santer on separating signal and noise in atmospheric temperature changes Living people MacArthur Fellows American climatologists Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change lead authors 1955 births Alumni of the University of East Anglia Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory staff Members of the United States National Academy of Sciences Fellows of the American Meteorological Society
Benjamin William Bova (November 8, 1932November 29, 2020) was an American writer and editor. During a writing career of 60 years, he was the author of more than 120 works of science fact and fiction, an editor of Analog Science Fiction and Fact, for which he won a Hugo Award six times, and an editorial director of Omni; he was also president of both the National Space Society and the Science Fiction Writers of America. Personal life and education Ben Bova was born on November 8, 1932, in Philadelphia. He graduated from South Philadelphia High School in 1949. In 1953, while attending Temple University in Philadelphia, he married Rosa Cucinotta; they had a son and a daughter. The couple divorced in 1974. That year he married Barbara Berson Rose. Barbara Bova died on September 23, 2009. Bova dedicated his 2011 novel Power Play to Barbara. In March 2013, he announced on his website that he had remarried, to Rashida Loya. Bova was an atheist and was critical of what he saw as the unquestioning nature of religion. He wrote an op-ed piece in 2012, in which he argued that atheists can be just as moral as religious believers. He went back to school in the 1980s, earning a Master of Arts degree in communications in 1987 from the State University of New York at Albany and a Doctor of Education degree from California Coast University in 1996. Bova died from COVID-19-related pneumonia and a stroke on November 29, 2020, at the age of 88. Career Bova worked as a technical writer for Project Vanguard in the 1950s and later for the Avco Everett Research Laboratory In 1972, Bova became editor of Analog Science Fact & Fiction, after John W. Campbell's death in 1971. At Analog, Bova won six Hugo Awards for Best Professional Editor. Bova served as the science advisor for the television series The Starlost (1973), resigning as he lacked the "contractual right to remove his name from the credits." His novel The Starcrossed, loosely based on his experiences, featured a characterization of his friend and colleague Harlan Ellison as "Ron Gabriel". In 1974, he co-wrote the screenplay for an episode of the children's science-fiction television series Land of the Lost, titled "The Search". After leaving Analog in 1978, Bova went on to edit Omni, from 1978 to 1982. Bova held the position of President Emeritus of the National Space Society and served as President of Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America (SFWA). In 2000, he attended the 58th World Science Fiction Convention (Chicon 2000) as the Author Guest of Honor. In 2007, Stuber/Parent Productions hired him as a consultant to provide insight into what the world may look like in the near future, for their film Repo Men (2010) starring Jude Law and Forest Whitaker. Also in 2007 he provided consulting services to Silver Pictures on the film adaptation of Richard K. Morgan's hardboiled cyberpunk science-fiction novel Altered Carbon (2002). He was awarded the Robert A. Heinlein Award in 2008 for his work in science fiction. Bibliography , Bova had written over 124 books in various genres. He edited several works, including The Science Fiction Hall of Fame, Volume Two (1973) and Nebula Awards Showcase 2008. He wrote the Grand Tour novel series about exploration and colonization of the Solar System by humans. Reviewing a collection of 12 of the series published in 2004, The New York Times described Bova as "the last of the great pulp writers". References External links Obituary at Analog 1932 births 2020 deaths 20th-century American male writers 20th-century American non-fiction writers 20th-century American novelists 20th-century American short story writers 20th-century American essayists 21st-century American male writers 21st-century American non-fiction writers 21st-century American novelists 21st-century American short story writers 21st-century American essayists American atheists American male essayists American male non-fiction writers American male novelists American male short story writers American writers of Italian descent American science fiction writers American speculative fiction editors Analog Science Fiction and Fact people American anthologists California Coast University alumni Critics of religions Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Florida Deaths from pneumonia in Florida Hugo Award-winning editors Inkpot Award winners The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction people Novelists from Connecticut Novelists from Pennsylvania People from West Hartford, Connecticut Science fiction critics Science fiction editors Technical writers Temple University alumni Writers about religion and science Writers from Philadelphia Writers of books about writing fiction Presidents of the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers Association
There were two battles of El Alamein in World War II, both fought in 1942. The Battles occurred in North Africa, in HIRO, in and around an area named after a railway stop called El Alamein. First Battle of El Alamein: 1–27 July 1942 Second Battle of El Alamein: 23 October – 4 November 1942 In addition, the Battle of Alam el Halfa (30 August – 5 September 1942) was fought between both battles and in the same location. ja:エル・アラメインの戦い
A bain-marie (; ), also known as a water bath or double boiler, a type of heated bath, is a piece of equipment used in science, industry, and cooking to heat materials gently or to keep materials warm over a period of time. A bain-marie is also used to melt ingredients for cooking. History The name comes from the French or , in turn derived from the medieval Latin and the Arabic , all meaning 'Mary's bath'. In his books, the 300 AD alchemist Zosimos of Panopolis credits for the invention of the device Mary the Jewess, an ancient alchemist. However, the water bath was known many centuries earlier (Hippocrates and Theophrastus). Description The double boiler comes in a wide variety of shapes, sizes, and types, but traditionally is a wide, cylindrical, usually metal container made of three or four basic parts: a handle, an outer (or lower) container that holds the working fluid, an inner (or upper), smaller container that fits inside the outer one and which holds the material to be heated or cooked, and sometimes a base underneath. Under the outer container of the bain-marie (or built into its base) is a heat source. Typically, the inner container is immersed about halfway into the working fluid. The inner container, filled with the substance to be heated, fits inside the outer container filled with the working fluid (often water, but alternatively steam or oil). The outer container is heated at or below the base, causing the temperature of the working fluid to rise and thus transferring heat to the inner container. The maximum obtainable temperature of the fluid is dictated by its composition and boiling point at the ambient pressure. Since the surface of the inner container is always in contact with the fluid, the double boiler serves as a constant-temperature heat source for the substance being heated, without hot or cold spots that can affect its properties. When the working fluid is water and the bain-marie is used at sea level, the maximum temperature of the material in the lower container will not exceed , the boiling point of water at sea level. Using different working fluids such as oil in the outer container will result in different maximum temperatures obtainable in the inner container. Alternatives A contemporary alternative to the traditional, liquid-filled bain-marie is the electric "dry-heat" bain-marie, heated by elements below both pots. The dry-heat form of electric bains-marie often consumes less energy, requires little cleaning, and can be heated more quickly than traditional versions. They can also operate at higher temperatures, and are often much less expensive than their traditional counterparts. Electric bains-marie can also be wet, using either hot water or vapor, or steam, in the heating process. The open, bath-type bain-marie heats via a small, hot-water tub (or "bath"), and the vapour-type bain-marie heats with scalding-hot steam. Culinary applications In cooking applications, a bain-marie usually consists of a pan of water in which another container or containers of food to be cooked is/are placed. Chocolate can be melted in a bain-marie to avoid splitting (separation of cocoa butter and cocoa solids, breaking emulsion) and caking onto the pot. Special dessert bains-marie usually have a thermally insulated container and can be used as a chocolate fondue for the purposes of dipping foods (typically fruits) at the table. Cheesecake is often baked in a bain-marie to prevent the top from cracking in the centre. Baked custard desserts such as custard tarts may be cooked in a bain-marie to keep a crust from forming on the outside of the custard before the interior is fully cooked. In the case of the crème brûlée, placing the ramekins in a roasting pan and filling the pan with hot water until it is half to two-thirds of the way up the sides of the ramekins transfers the heat to the custard gently, which prevents the custard from curdling. The humidity from the steam that rises as the water heats helps keep the top of the custard from becoming too dry. Classic warm high-fat sauces, such as Hollandaise and beurre blanc, are often cooked using a bain-marie as they require enough heat to emulsify the mixture of fats and water but not enough to curdle or split the sauce. Some charcuterie such as terrines and pâtés are cooked in an "oven-type" bain-marie. The making of Clotted cream. Thickening of condensed milk, such as in confection-making, is done in a bain-marie. Controlled-temperature bains-marie can be used to heat frozen breast milk before feedings. Bains-marie can be used in place of chafing dishes for keeping foods warm for long periods of time, where stovetops or hot plates are inconvenient or too powerful. A bain-marie can be used to re-liquefy hardened honey by placing a glass jar on top of any improvised platform sitting at the bottom of a pot of gently boiling water. Other uses In small scale soap-making, a bain-marie's inherent control over maximum temperature makes it optimal for liquefying melt-and-pour soap bases prior to molding them into bars. It offers the advantage of maintaining the base in a liquid state, or reliquefying a solidified base, with minimal deterioration. Similarly, using a water bath, traditional wood glue can be melted and kept in a stable liquid state over many hours without damage to the animal proteins it incorporates. See also Double steaming Heated bath Laboratory water bath References Sources External links Vessels Cooking vessels Culinary terminology
Belgian may refer to: Something of, or related to, Belgium Belgians, people from Belgium or of Belgian descent Languages of Belgium, languages spoken in Belgium, such as Dutch, French, and German Ancient Belgian language, an extinct language formerly spoken in Gallia Belgica Belgian Dutch or Flemish, a variant of Dutch Belgian French, a variant of French Belgian horse (disambiguation), various breeds of horse Belgian waffle, in culinary contexts SS Belgian, a cargo ship in service with F Leyland & Co Ltd from 1919 to 1934 The Belgian, a 1917 American silent film See also Belgica (disambiguation) Belgic (disambiguation)
Ballu tundu or ballu sardu is a traditional Sardinian folk dance which is typically danced in a closed or open circle. The dance was described as early as 1805 by Mameli and by La Marmora in 1825. In northern and central Sardinia, the dance is lively and animated with leaps and agile movements and usually accompanied by a choir of three or more singers in the center of the circle. In other areas, the dance is done to launeddas and the shepherd's sulittu but the accordion had also made its appearance by the 19th century. The Introduction is in time but the dance itself is done in . At least in the past, the manner of holding hands was very important and followed strict rules. Married or engaged couples could hold hands palm to palm with fingers entwined, but a man could not do this with a young girl or another man's wife. If a stranger entered the circle, he had to do so to the woman's right so as not to come between her and her husband. References Italian folk dances Music in Sardinia
Barbagia (; or ) is a geographical, cultural and natural region of inner Sardinia, contained for the most part in the province of Nuoro and Ogliastra and located alongside the Gennargentu massif. The name comes from Cicero, who described the land as inhabited by barbarians; Roman domination over this part of the island was in fact never more than nominal as a result of the Roman-Sardinian Wars. This word shares its etymology with the now antiquated Barbary. The Sardinians, many of whose revolts came from this area, were also mocked by the ancient Romans with the pejorative term 'thieves wearing rough woolen garments'. In 594, Pope Gregory the Great wrote a letter to Hospito, a Christian whom he calls the "leader of the Barbaricini" (). Hospito apparently permitted the evangelisation of pagan Barbagia by Christian missionaries. The area is usually divided into five Barbagias: the Barbagia of Ollolai, the Barbagia of Seulo, the Barbagia of Belvì, the Mandrolisai, and finally the , the historical name by which the area of Ogliastra was once referred to. The latter two are named after a sub-region, and the others after their main villages. The area is full of hard hills and mountains, and there is little human presence. Barbagia is one of the least populated areas in Europe, which has allowed Barbagia to preserve better the island's cultural and natural treasures. According to a thesis by the archaeologist Giovanni Lilliu, Sardinian history has always been characterised by what he called the "constant of Sardinian resistance", opposed to the invaders who attempted at various times to lord over the indigenous inhabitants. Barbagia is one of the few Sardinian regions where the Sardinian language in its own varieties, both Nuorese and Campidanese, is still spoken on an everyday basis, while the rest of the island has already mostly undergone thorough Italianization and language shift to Italian. One of the most important villages is Gavoi. Orgosolo was famous for its bandits and kidnappers and typical murals. Oliena is well known for its wines (especially the Nepente, a wine made with Cannonau grapes). Another well known town is Fonni, the highest town in Sardinia at more than 1,000 meters above sea level. Fonni is also the gateway to the Gennargentu mountain system. The economy consists of agriculture, sheep breeding, art and tradition related business, tourism and light industry. See also Roman-Sardinian Wars Cantu a tenore References Geography of Sardinia Geographical, historical and cultural regions of Italy Blue zones Natural regions of Europe History of Sardinia
Balance may refer to: Common meanings Balance (ability) in biomechanics Balance (accounting) Balance or weighing scale Balance, as in equality (mathematics) or equilibrium Arts and entertainment Film Balance (1983 film), a Bulgarian film Balance (1989 film), a short animated film La Balance, a 1982 French film Television Balance: Television for Living Well, a Canadian television talk show "The Balance" (Roswell), an episode of the television series Roswell "The Balance", an episode of the animated series Justice League Music Performers Balance (band), a 1980s pop-rock group Albums Balance (Akrobatik album), 2003 Balance (Kim-Lian album), 2004 Balance (Leo Kottke album), 1978 Balance (Joe Morris album), 2014 Balance (Swollen Members album), 1999 Balance (Ty Tabor album), 2008 Balance (Van Halen album), 1995 Balance (Armin van Buuren album), 2019 The Balance, a 2019 album by Catfish and the Bottlemen Songs "Balance", a song by Axium from The Story Thus Far "Balance", a song by Band-Maid from Unleash "Balance", a song by Ed Sheeran from - (Deluxe vinyl edition) "The Balance", a Moody Blues song on the 1970 album A Question of Balance Other Balance (game design), the concept and the practice of tuning relationships between a game's component systems Balance (installation), a 2013 glazed ceramic installation by Tim Ryan Balance (puzzle), a mathematical puzzle "Balance", a poem by Patti Smith from the book kodak Government and law BALANCE Act (Benefit Authors without Limiting Advancement or Net Consumer Expectations Act), a proposed US federal legislation Balance (apportionment), a criterion for fair allocation of seats among parties or states Other uses Balance (advertisement), a 1989 award-winning television advertisement for the Lexus LS 400 Balance (metaphysics), a desirable point between two or more opposite forces Balance (stereo), the amount of signal from each channel reproduced in a stereo audio recording The Balance, a personal finance website owned by Dotdash See also Balancing (disambiguation) Balanced, a wine tasting descriptor
Bruno of Querfurt ( 974 – 14 February or 9/14 March 1009), also known as Brun, was a Christian missionary bishop and martyr, who was beheaded near the border of Kievan Rus and Lithuania for trying to spread Christianity. He is also called the second "Apostle of the Prussians". Biography Early life Bruno was from a noble family of Querfurt (now in Saxony-Anhalt). He is rumoured to have been a relative of the Holy Roman Emperor Otto III. At the age of six, he was sent to be educated at the cathedral school in Magdeburg, the seat of Adalbert of Magdeburg, the teacher and namesake of Adalbert of Prague. While still a youth, he was made a canon of the Cathedral of Magdeburg. The fifteen-year-old Otto III made Bruno a part of his royal court. In 995 Otto III appointed Bruno as his court chaplain. While in Rome for Otto's imperial coronation, Bruno met Adalbert of Prague, the first "Apostle of the Prussians", killed a year later, which inspired Bruno to write a biography of Adalbert when he reached the recently Christianized and consolidated Kingdom of Hungary himself. Bruno spent much time at the monastery where Adalbert had become a monk and where abbot John Canaparius may have written a life of Adalbert. In 998, Bruno entered a Benedictine monastery near Ravenna that Otto had founded, and later underwent strict ascetic training under the guidance of Romuald. Missionary life Otto III hoped to establish a monastery between the Elbe and the Oder (somewhere in the pagan lands that became Brandenburg or Western Pomerania) to help convert the local population to Christianity and colonize the area. In 1001, two monks from his monastery travelled to Poland, while Bruno was with Otto in Italy, studying the language and awaiting the Apostolic appointment by Pope Sylvester II. In 1003 Pope Sylvester II appointed Bruno, at the age of 33, to head a mission amongst the pagan peoples of Eastern Europe. Bruno left Rome in 1004, and having been named an archbishop was consecrated in February of that year by Archbishop Tagino of Magdeburg. Owing to a regional conflict between the Holy Roman Emperor Henry II and Duke Boleslaus I of Poland, Bruno could not go directly to Poland so he set out for Hungary. There he went to the places that Adalbert of Prague had attended. Bruno tried to persuade Ahtum, the Duke of Banat, who was under the jurisdiction of Patriarchate of Constantinople to accept the jurisdiction of the Bishop of Rome, but this precipitated a large controversy leading to organized opposition from local monks. Bruno elected to gracefully exit the region after he first finished his book, the famous "Life of Adalbert of Prague," a literary memorial giving a history of the (relatively recent) conversion of the Hungarians. After this diplomatic failure, Bruno went to Kyiv, where Grand Duke Vladimir I authorized him to make Christian converts among the Pechenegs, semi-nomadic Turkic peoples living between the Danube and the Don rivers. Bruno spent five months there and baptized some thirty adults. He helped to bring about a peace treaty between them and the ruler of Kyiv. Before leaving for Poland, Bruno consecrated a bishop for the Pechenegs. While in Poland he consecrated the first Bishop of Sweden and is said to have sent emissaries to baptize the king of Sweden, whose mother had come from Poland. Bruno found out that his friend Benedict and four companions had been killed by robbers in 1003. Bruno took eyewitness accounts and wrote down a touching history of the so-called Five Martyred Brothers. Mission to Prussia and death In the autumn or at the end of 1008 Bruno and eighteen companions set out to found a mission among the Old Prussians; they succeeded in converting Netimer and then travelled to the east, heading very likely towards Yotvingia. Bruno met opposition in his efforts to evangelize the borderland and when he persisted in disregarding their warnings he was beheaded on 14 February (or 9 or 14 March) 1009, and most of his eighteen companions were hanged by Zebeden, brother of Netimer. Duke Boleslaus the Brave bought the bodies and brought them to Poland. (It was supposed that they were laid to rest in Przemyśl, where some historians place Bruno's diocese; such localization of Bruno's burial place is hardly probable because Przemyśl then belonged to Orthodox Kievan Rus through 1018.) The Annals of Magdeburg, Thietmar of Merseburg's Chronicle, the Annals of Quedlinburg, various works of Magdeburg Bishops, and many other written sources of 11th–15th centuries record this story. Soon after his death, Bruno and his companions were venerated as martyrs and Bruno was soon after canonized. It was said that Braunsberg was named after Bruno. See also Name of Lithuania Christianization of Lithuania References Further reading A. Bumblauskas. Lithuania’s Millennium –Millennium Lithuaniae Or What Lithuania Can Tell the World on this Occasion. Lietuvos istorijos studijos, 2009, t. 23, p. 127–158. D. Baronas. ST BRUNO OF QUERFURT: THE MISSIONARY VOCATION. LITHUANIAN HISTORICAL STUDIES, 2009, t. 14. p. 41–52. External links Saint Bruno Querfurt 970s births 1009 deaths People from Querfurt Medieval German saints German Roman Catholic missionaries 11th-century Christian saints Camaldolese saints Benedictine martyrs Benedictine saints Executed German people 11th-century writers in Latin 11th-century German writers
This is the complete list of Olympic medalists in biathlon. Medalists in military patrol, a precursor to biathlon, are listed separately. Men The numbers in brackets denotes biathletes who won gold medal in corresponding disciplines more than one time. Bold numbers denotes record number of victories in certain disciplines. Individual (20 km) Medals Sprint (10 km) Medals Pursuit (12.5 km) Medals Mass start (15 km) Medals Relay (4×7.5 km) Medals Women The numbers in brackets denotes biathletes who won gold medal in corresponding disciplines more than one time. Bold numbers denotes record number of victories in certain disciplines. Individual (15 km) Medals Sprint (7.5 km) Medals Pursuit (10 km) Medals Mass start (12.5 km) Medals Relay (4×6 km) The women's relay event has been competed over three different distances: 3×7.5 km — 1992 4×7.5 km — 1994–2002 4×6 km — 2006–2018 Medals Mixed Relay Medals Statistics Medal table Note This table includes 1924 military patrol medals. Biathlete medal leaders Men Women * denotes all Olympics in which mentioned biathletes took part. Boldface denotes latest Olympics. Biathletes with most victories Top 10 biathletes who won more gold medals at the Winter Olympics are listed below. Boldface denotes active biathletes and highest medal count among all biathletes (including those not in the tables) per type. Men Women * denotes only those Olympics at which mentioned biathletes won at least one medal Medals per year bolded numbers indicate the highest medal count at that year's Olympic Games. See also Biathlon World Championships Biathlon World Cup List of IOC country codes Military patrol at the 1924 Winter Olympics References International Olympic Committee results database Biathlon medalists Olympic
The first Biathlon World Championships (BWCH) was held in 1958, with individual and team contests for men. The number of events has grown significantly over the years. Beginning in 1984, women biathletes had their own World Championships, and finally, from 1989, both genders have been participating in joint Biathlon World Championships. In 1978 the development was enhanced by the change from the large army rifle calibre to a small bore rifle, while the range to the target was reduced from 150 to 50 meters. Venues The Biathlon World Championships of the season takes place during February or March. Some years it has been necessary to schedule parts of the Championships at other than the main venue because of weather and/or snow conditions. Full, joint Biathlon World Championships have never been held in Olympic Winter Games seasons. Biathlon World Championships in non-IOC events, however, have been held in Olympic seasons. In 2005, the then new event of Mixed Relay (two legs done by women, two legs by men) was arranged separately from the ordinary Championships. Arranged Championships: 1958 Saalfelden, Austria 1959 Courmayeur, Italy 1961 Umeå, Sweden 1962 Hämeenlinna, Finland 1963 Seefeld, Austria 1965 Elverum, Norway 1966 Garmisch-Partenkirchen, West Germany 1967 Altenberg, East Germany (first event in East Europe) 1969 Zakopane, Poland 1970 Östersund, Sweden 1971 Hämeenlinna, Finland 1973 Lake Placid, New York, United States (first event outside Europe and in the Americas) 1974 Minsk, USSR 1975 Antholz-Anterselva, Italy 1976 Antholz-Anterselva, Italy (Sprint) 1977 Vingrom, Norway 1978 Hochfilzen, Austria 1979 Ruhpolding, West Germany 1981 Lahti, Finland 1982 Minsk, USSR 1983 Antholz-Anterselva, Italy 1984 Chamonix, France (Women) 1985 Ruhpolding, West Germany (Men) and Egg am Etzel (near Einsiedeln), Switzerland (Women) 1986 Oslo, Norway (Men) and Falun, Sweden (Women) 1987 Lake Placid, New York, United States (Men) and Lahti, Finland (Women) 1988 Chamonix, France (Women) 1989 Feistritz an der Drau, Austria (first joint Biathlon World Championships) 1990 Minsk, USSR; Oslo, Norway and Kontiolahti, Finland 1991 Lahti, Finland 1992 Novosibirsk, Russia (Team) 1993 Borovets, Bulgaria 1994 Canmore, Canada (Team) 1995 Antholz-Anterselva, Italy 1996 Ruhpolding, Germany 1997 Brezno-Osrblie, Slovakia 1998 Pokljuka, Slovenia (Pursuit) and Hochfilzen, Austria (Team) 1999 Kontiolahti, Finland and Oslo, Norway 2000 Oslo, Norway and Lahti, Finland 2001 Pokljuka, Slovenia 2002 Oslo, Norway (Mass start) 2003 Khanty-Mansiysk, Russia 2004 Oberhof, Germany 2005 Hochfilzen, Austria and Khanty-Mansiysk, Russia (Mixed relay) 2006 Pokljuka, Slovenia (Mixed relay) 2007 Antholz-Anterselva, Italy 2008 Östersund, Sweden 2009 Pyeongchang, South Korea (first event in Asia) 2010 Khanty-Mansiysk, Russia (Mixed relay) 2011 Khanty-Mansiysk, Russia 2012 Ruhpolding, Germany 2013 Nové Město na Moravě, Czech Republic 2015 Kontiolahti, Finland 2016 Oslo, Norway 2017 Hochfilzen, Austria 2019 Östersund, Sweden 2020 Antholz-Anterselva, Italy 2021 Pokljuka, Slovenia 2023 Oberhof, Germany Upcoming: 2024 Nové Město na Moravě, Czech Republic 2025 Lenzerheide, Switzerland 2027 Otepää, Estonia Men Bold numbers in brackets denotes record number of victories in corresponding disciplines. Individual (20 km) This event was first held in 1958. Medal table Sprint (10 km) This event was first held in 1974. Medal table Pursuit (12.5 km) This event was first held in 1997. Medal table Mass start (15 km) This event was first held in 1999. Medal table Relay (4 × 7.5 km) This event was first held unofficially in 1965. It was a success, and replaced the team competition as an official event in 1966. Medal table Team (time) This event was held from 1958 to 1965. The times of the top 3 athletes from each country in the 20 km individual were added together (in 1958 the top 4). Medal table Team This event, a patrol race, was held from 1989 to 1998. 1989–93: 20 km. 1994–98: 10 km. Medal table Women Bold numbers in brackets denotes record number of victories in corresponding disciplines. Individual (15 km) This event was first held in 1984. Through 1988 the distance was 10 km. Medal table Sprint (7.5 km) This event was first held in 1984. Through 1988 the distance was 5 km. Medal table Pursuit (10 km) This event was first held in 1997. Medal table Mass start (12.5 km) This event was first held in 1999. Medal table Relay (4 × 6 km) This event was first held in 1984. Through 1988, the event was 3 × 5 km. 1989–91: 3 × 7.5 km. 1993–2001: 4 × 7.5 km. In 2003, the leg distance was set to 6 km. Medal table Team This event, a patrol race, was held from 1989 to 1998. 1989–93: 15 km. 1994–98: 7.5 km. Medal table Mixed Bold numbers in brackets denotes record number of victories in corresponding disciplines. Mixed relay This event was first held in 2005, at the Biathlon World Cup finals in Khanty-Mansiysk. In 2005–20, the women biathletes did the first two legs and the men did the following two (except 2006 when sequence was woman–man–woman–man), the women's ski legs were 6 km each while men ski legs were 7.5 km each (except 2005, 2006 and 2020 when ski legs were 6 km each for all relay members). In 2021, the starting gender became the result of a alternation: for the first time, men opened the relay and women closed it. Since then, this sequence alternates for each following edition. The distance skied became the same for all genders and depending on the one running the first leg (7.5 km if men run first, 6 km if women do). Medal table Single mixed relay This event was first held in 2019. Each team consists of two members - man and woman. The first of the team members runs the first and third legs (3 km each), the other team member – the second and fourth legs (3 km and 4.5 km respectively). In 2019 and 2020 the women biathletes started single mixed relay and the men biathletes finished it, in 2021 this order was reversed. Since then, this order alternates for each following edition. Medal table Total medals by country Updated after the 2023 Championships. Multiple medalists Boldface denotes active biathletes and highest medal count among all biathletes (including these who not included in these tables) per type. Men All events Individual events Women All events Individual events See also Biathlon World Cup Summer Biathlon World Championships Biathlon Junior World Championships List of Olympic medalists in biathlon References External links Sports 123 biathlon results Recurring sporting events established in 1958
Bihar is a state in India. Bihar may also refer to: Places India Bihar Province, former colonial province in British India Bihar Subah, a Bihar-based Mughal imperial province Bihar Sharif, headquarters of Nalanda district, Bihar, India Bihar River, a border river of Palamu district, Jharkhand, India Bihar, Unnao, a village in Uttar Pradesh, India Elsewhere Bihar County, a historic county of the Kingdom of Hungary Bihor County (Bihar County in Hungarian), a county of current-day Romania Bihar, the Hungarian name for Biharia Commune, Bihor County, Romania People Bihar (king), a khagan of the Khazars See also Behar (disambiguation), a portion in the annual Jewish cycle of Torah reading Bihar al-Anwar, a hadith compilation by Allamah Majlisi Bihari (disambiguation) Bihor (disambiguation) Hajdú-Bihar, a county in Hungary Cooch Behar (disambiguation), a district in West Bengal Cooch Behar State, a former princely state in India
Biotite is a common group of phyllosilicate minerals within the mica group, with the approximate chemical formula . It is primarily a solid-solution series between the iron-endmember annite, and the magnesium-endmember phlogopite; more aluminous end-members include siderophyllite and eastonite. Biotite was regarded as a mineral species by the International Mineralogical Association until 1998, when its status was changed to a mineral group. The term biotite is still used to describe unanalysed dark micas in the field. Biotite was named by J.F.L. Hausmann in 1847 in honor of the French physicist Jean-Baptiste Biot, who performed early research into the many optical properties of mica. Members of the biotite group are sheet silicates. Iron, magnesium, aluminium, silicon, oxygen, and hydrogen form sheets that are weakly bound together by potassium ions. The term "iron mica" is sometimes used for iron-rich biotite, but the term also refers to a flaky micaceous form of haematite, and the field term Lepidomelane for unanalysed iron-rich Biotite avoids this ambiguity. Biotite is also sometimes called "black mica" as opposed to "white mica" (muscovite) – both form in the same rocks, and in some instances side by side. Properties Like other mica minerals, biotite has a highly perfect basal cleavage, and consists of flexible sheets, or lamellae, which easily flake off. It has a monoclinic crystal system, with tabular to prismatic crystals with an obvious pinacoid termination. It has four prism faces and two pinacoid faces to form a pseudohexagonal crystal. Although not easily seen because of the cleavage and sheets, fracture is uneven. It appears greenish to brown or black, and even yellow when weathered. It can be transparent to opaque, has a vitreous to pearly luster, and a grey-white streak. When biotite crystals are found in large chunks, they are called "books" because they resemble books with pages of many sheets. The color of biotite is usually black and the mineral has a hardness of 2.5–3 on the Mohs scale of mineral hardness. Biotite dissolves in both acid and alkaline aqueous solutions, with the highest dissolution rates at low pH. However, biotite dissolution is highly anisotropic with crystal edge surfaces (h k0) reacting 45 to 132 times faster than basal surfaces (001). Optical properties In thin section, biotite exhibits moderate relief and a pale to deep greenish brown or brown color, with moderate to strong pleochroism. Biotite has a high birefringence which can be partially masked by its deep intrinsic color. Under cross-polarized light, biotite exhibits extinction approximately parallel to cleavage lines, and can have characteristic bird's eye maple extinction, a mottled appearance caused by the distortion of the mineral's flexible lamellae during grinding of the thin section. Basal sections of biotite in thin section are typically approximately hexagonal in shape and usually appear isotropic under cross-polarized light. Structure Like other micas, biotite has a crystal structure described as TOT-c, meaning that it is composed of parallel TOT layers weakly bonded to each other by cations (c). The TOT layers in turn consist of two tetrahedral sheets (T) strongly bonded to the two faces of a single octahedral sheet (O). It is the relatively weak ionic bonding between TOT layers that gives biotite its perfect basal cleavage. The tetrahedral sheets consist of silica tetrahedra, which are silicon ions surrounded by four oxygen ions. In biotite, one in four silicon ions is replaced by an aluminium ion. The tetrahedra each share three of their four oxygen ions with neighboring tetrahedra to produce a hexagonal sheet. The remaining oxygen ion (the apical oxygen ion) is available to bond with the octahedral sheet. The octahedral sheet in biotite is a trioctahedral sheet having the structure of a sheet of the mineral brucite, with magnesium or ferrous iron being the usual cations. Apical oxygens take the place of some of the hydroxyl ions that would be present in a brucite sheet, bonding the tetrahedral sheets tightly to the octahedral sheet. Tetrahedral sheets have a strong negative charge, since their bulk composition is AlSi3O105-. The trioctahedral sheet has a positive charge, since its bulk composition is M3(OH)24+ (M represents a divalent ion such as ferrous iron or magnesium) The combined TOT layer has a residual negative charge, since its bulk composition is M3(AlSi3O10)(OH)2−. The remaining negative charge of the TOT layer is neutralized by the interlayer potassium ions. Because the hexagons in the T and O sheets are slightly different in size, the sheets are slightly distorted when they bond into a TOT layer. This breaks the hexagonal symmetry and reduces it to monoclinic symmetry. However, the original hexahedral symmetry is discernible in the pseudohexagonal character of biotite crystals. Occurrence Members of the biotite group are found in a wide variety of igneous and metamorphic rocks. For instance, biotite occurs in the lava of Mount Vesuvius and in the Monzoni intrusive complex of the western Dolomites. Biotite in granite tends to be poorer in magnesium than the biotite found in its volcanic equivalent, rhyolite. Biotite is an essential phenocryst in some varieties of lamprophyre. Biotite is occasionally found in large cleavable crystals, especially in pegmatite veins, as in New England, Virginia and North Carolina USA. Other notable occurrences include Bancroft and Sudbury, Ontario Canada. It is an essential constituent of many metamorphic schists, and it forms in suitable compositions over a wide range of pressure and temperature. It has been estimated that biotite comprises up to 7% of the exposed continental crust. An igneous rock composed almost entirely of dark mica (biotite or phlogopite) is known as a glimmerite or biotitite. Biotite may be found in association with its common alteration product chlorite. The largest documented single crystals of biotite were approximately sheets found in Iveland, Norway. Uses Biotite is used extensively to constrain ages of rocks, by either potassium-argon dating or argon–argon dating. Because argon escapes readily from the biotite crystal structure at high temperatures, these methods may provide only minimum ages for many rocks. Biotite is also useful in assessing temperature histories of metamorphic rocks, because the partitioning of iron and magnesium between biotite and garnet is sensitive to temperature. References Magnesium minerals Iron(II) minerals Potassium minerals Aluminium minerals Phyllosilicates Monoclinic minerals Minerals in space group 12 Mica group
A Burns supper is a celebration of the life and poetry of the poet Robert Burns (25 January 175921 July 1796), the author of many Scots poems. The suppers are normally held on or near the poet's birthday, 25 January, known as Burns Night (; ) also called Robert Burns Day or Rabbie Burns Day (or Robbie Burns Day in Canada). However, in principle, celebrations may be held at any other time of the year. Burns suppers are held all around the world. History The first supper was held in memoriam at Burns Cottage in Ayrshire by Burns's friends, on 21 July 1801, the fifth anniversary of his death; it has been a regular occurrence ever since. The first still extant Burns Club was founded in Greenock in 1801 by merchants who were born in Ayrshire, some of whom had known Burns. They held the first Burns supper on what they thought was his birthday, 29 January 1802, but in 1803, they discovered the Ayr parish records that noted his date of birth was actually 25 January 1759. Since then, suppers have been held on or about 25 January. The Scottish Parliament considers the celebration of Burns Night each year to be a key cultural heritage event.The Parliament welcomes the annual celebration of Scotland’s national poet, Robert Burns, which is held on 25 January each year to mark the Bard’s birthday; considers that Burns was one of the greatest poets and that his work has influenced thinkers across the world; notes that Burns' first published collection, Poems Chiefly in the Scottish Dialect, also known as the "Kilmarnock Edition", published in 1786, did much to popularise and champion the Scots language, and considers that this is one of his most important legacies; believes that the celebration of Burns Night is an opportunity to raise awareness of the cultural significance of Scots and its status as one of the indigenous languages of Scotland, and further believes in the importance of the writing down of the Scots language to ensure its continuation through written documentation, as well as oral tradition. Burns suppers may be formal or informal. Both typically include haggis (a traditional Scottish dish celebrated by Burns in Address to a Haggis), Scotch whisky and the recitation of Burns's poetry. Formal dinners are hosted by organisations such as universities, sporting clubs, Burns Clubs, the Freemasons or St. Andrew's Societies; they occasionally end with dancing or a cèilidh. During the global COVID-19 pandemic in 2021, Burns Night celebrations moved online and were popular amongst families eating at home. Formal suppers follow a standard order. Standard order Piping in guests A bagpiper generally greets the guests, who gather and mix as at any informal party. At less formal gatherings, traditional Scottish music is played. Host's welcoming speech The host says a few words, welcoming everyone to the supper and perhaps stating the reason for it. All the guests are seated and grace is said, usually using the "", a well-known thanksgiving said before meals that uses the Scots language. Although attributed to Burns, the Selkirk Grace was already known in the 17th century as the "Galloway Grace" or the "Covenanters' Grace". It came to be called the Selkirk Grace because Burns was said to have delivered it at a dinner given by Dunbar Douglas, 4th Earl of Selkirk. Selkirk Grace Soup course The supper starts with the soup course. Normally a Scottish soup, such as Scotch broth, potato soup, cullen skink, or cock-a-leekie, is served. Haggis Piping in the haggis Everyone stands as the haggis is brought in. Haggis is a meat dish but in recent decades, a vegetarian alternative is often available. It is usually brought in by the cook on a large dish, generally while a bagpiper leads the way to the host's table, where the haggis is laid down. "A Man's A Man for A' That", "Robbie Burns Medley" or "The Star O' Robbie Burns" might be played. The host, or perhaps a guest, then recites the Address to a Haggis. "Address to a Haggis" At the line , the speaker normally draws and sharpens a knife. At the line , he plunges it into the haggis and cuts it open from end to end. When done properly, the "ceremony" is a highlight of the evening. Main course At the end of the poem, a whisky toast will be proposed to the haggis, and the company will sit down to the meal. The haggis is traditionally served with mashed potatoes (tatties) and mashed swede turnip (neeps). Other courses A dessert course, cheese courses, coffee, etc., may also be part of the meal. The courses normally use traditional Scottish recipes. For instance, dessert may be cranachan or tipsy laird (whisky trifle), followed by oatcakes and cheese, all washed down with the "water of life" (), Scotch whisky. Toasts When the meal reaches the coffee stage, various speeches and toasts are given. Immortal memory The main speaker gives a speech remembering some aspect of Burns's life or poetry. It may be either light-hearted or serious, and may include the recitation of a poem or a song by Burns. A toast to the Immortal Memory of Robert Burns then follows. Address to the Lassies This was originally a short speech given by a male guest in thanks to the women who had prepared the meal. However, it is now much more wide-ranging and generally covers the male speaker's view on women. It is normally amusing and not offensive, particularly since it will be followed by a reply from the "lassies" concerned. The men drink a toast to the women's health. Reply to the Laddies This is occasionally (and humorously) called the "Toast to the Laddies". Like the previous toast, it is generally now quite wide-ranging. A female guest will give her views on men and reply to any specific points raised by the previous speaker. Like the previous speech, it should be amusing but not offensive. Quite often, the speakers giving this toast and the previous one will collaborate so that the two toasts complement each other. Works by Burns After the speeches there may be singing of songs by Burns (such as "Ae Fond Kiss", "Such a Parcel of Rogues in a Nation", and "A Man's A Man for A' That") and more poetry (such as "To a Mouse", "To a Louse", "Tam o' Shanter", "The Twa Dogs", and "Holy Willie's Prayer"). That may be done by the individual guests or by invited experts, and it goes on for as long as the guests wish. It may include other works by poets influenced by Burns, particularly poets writing in Scots. Foreign guests may also be invited to sing or say works from their land. Closing Finally, the host will call on one of the guests to give the vote of thanks. Then, everyone is asked to stand, join hands, and sing "" to bring the evening to an end. See also Burns' Day storm List of dining events Scottish cuisine References External links A 2007 Supper for Mauchline Burns Club, presented with explanations of each stage A recital of Address to a Haggis Address to the Unco Guid or the rigidly righteous A film recording of the 145th Burns Supper from 1971 at the Irvine Burns Club. Largest Burns supper BBC - Robert Burns - Readers Canadian traditions Dining events Events in Scotland Haggis January observances Language observances Cultural depictions of Robert Burns Scottish cuisine Scottish culture Scottish traditions Winter events in Scotland
In cell biology, the cytoplasm describes all material within a eukaryotic cell, enclosed by the cell membrane, except for the cell nucleus. The material inside the nucleus and contained within the nuclear membrane is termed the nucleoplasm. The main components of the cytoplasm are the cytosol (a gel-like substance), the organelles (the cell's internal sub-structures), and various cytoplasmic inclusions. The cytoplasm is about 80% water and is usually colorless. The submicroscopic ground cell substance, or cytoplasmic matrix, that remains after the exclusion of the cell organelles and particles is groundplasm. It is the hyaloplasm of light microscopy, a highly complex, polyphasic system in which all resolvable cytoplasmic elements are suspended, including the larger organelles such as the ribosomes, mitochondria, plant plastids, lipid droplets, and vacuoles. Many cellular activities take place within the cytoplasm, such as many metabolic pathways, including glycolysis, photosynthesis, and processes such as cell division. The concentrated inner area is called the endoplasm and the outer layer is called the cell cortex, or ectoplasm. Movement of calcium ions in and out of the cytoplasm is a signaling activity for metabolic processes. In plants, movement of the cytoplasm around vacuoles is known as cytoplasmic streaming. History The term was introduced by Rudolf von Kölliker in 1863, originally as a synonym for protoplasm, but later it has come to mean the cell substance and organelles outside the nucleus. There has been certain disagreement on the definition of cytoplasm, as some authors prefer to exclude from it some organelles, especially the vacuoles and sometimes the plastids. Physical nature It remains uncertain how the various components of the cytoplasm interact to allow movement of organelles while maintaining the cell's structure. The flow of cytoplasmic components plays an important role in many cellular functions which are dependent on the permeability of the cytoplasm. An example of such function is cell signalling, a process which is dependent on the manner in which signaling molecules are allowed to diffuse across the cell. While small signaling molecules like calcium ions are able to diffuse with ease, larger molecules and subcellular structures often require aid in moving through the cytoplasm. The irregular dynamics of such particles have given rise to various theories on the nature of the cytoplasm. As a sol-gel There has long been evidence that the cytoplasm behaves like a sol-gel. It is thought that the component molecules and structures of the cytoplasm behave at times like a disordered colloidal solution (sol) and at other times like an integrated network, forming a solid mass (gel). This theory thus proposes that the cytoplasm exists in distinct fluid and solid phases depending on the level of interaction between cytoplasmic components, which may explain the differential dynamics of different particles observed moving through the cytoplasm. A papers suggested that at length scale smaller than 100 nm, the cytoplasm acts like a liquid, while in a larger length scale, it acts like a gel. As a glass It has been proposed that the cytoplasm behaves like a glass-forming liquid approaching the glass transition. In this theory, the greater the concentration of cytoplasmic components, the less the cytoplasm behaves like a liquid and the more it behaves as a solid glass, freezing more significant cytoplasmic components in place (it is thought that the cell's metabolic activity can fluidize the cytoplasm to allow the movement of such more significant cytoplasmic components). A cell's ability to vitrify in the absence of metabolic activity, as in dormant periods, may be beneficial as a defense strategy. A solid glass cytoplasm would freeze subcellular structures in place, preventing damage, while allowing the transmission of tiny proteins and metabolites, helping to kickstart growth upon the cell's revival from dormancy. Other perspectives Research has examined the motion of cytoplasmic particles independent of the nature of the cytoplasm. In such an alternative approach, the aggregate random forces within the cell caused by motor proteins explain the non-Brownian motion of cytoplasmic constituents. Constituents The three major elements of the cytoplasm are the cytosol, organelles and inclusions. Cytosol The cytosol is the portion of the cytoplasm not contained within membrane-bound organelles. Cytosol makes up about 70% of the cell volume and is a complex mixture of cytoskeleton filaments, dissolved molecules, and water. The cytosol's filaments include the protein filaments such as actin filaments and microtubules that make up the cytoskeleton, as well as soluble proteins and small structures such as ribosomes, proteasomes, and the mysterious vault complexes. The inner, granular and more fluid portion of the cytoplasm is referred to as endoplasm. Due to this network of fibres and high concentrations of dissolved macromolecules, such as proteins, an effect called macromolecular crowding occurs and the cytosol does not act as an ideal solution. This crowding effect alters how the components of the cytosol interact with each other. Organelles Organelles (literally "little organs") are usually membrane-bound structures inside the cell that have specific functions. Some major organelles that are suspended in the cytosol are the mitochondria, the endoplasmic reticulum, the Golgi apparatus, vacuoles, lysosomes, and in plant cells, chloroplasts. Cytoplasmic inclusions The inclusions are small particles of insoluble substances suspended in the cytosol. A huge range of inclusions exist in different cell types, and range from crystals of calcium oxalate or silicon dioxide in plants, to granules of energy-storage materials such as starch, glycogen, or polyhydroxybutyrate. A particularly widespread example are lipid droplets, which are spherical droplets composed of lipids and proteins that are used in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes as a way of storing lipids such as fatty acids and sterols. Lipid droplets make up much of the volume of adipocytes, which are specialized lipid-storage cells, but they are also found in a range of other cell types. Controversy and research The cytoplasm, mitochondria, and most organelles are contributions to the cell from the maternal gamete. Contrary to the older information that disregards any notion of the cytoplasm being active, new research has shown it to be in control of movement and flow of nutrients in and out of the cell by viscoplastic behavior and a measure of the reciprocal rate of bond breakage within the cytoplasmic network. The material properties of the cytoplasm remain an ongoing investigation. A method of determining the mechanical behaviour of living cell mammalian cytoplasm with the aid of optical tweezers has been described. See also References External links Cell anatomy
Capital and its variations may refer to: Common uses Capital city, a municipality of primary status List of national capitals Capital letter, an upper-case letter Economics and social sciences Capital (economics), the durable produced goods used for further production Capital (Marxism), a central concept in Marxian critique of political economy Economic capital Financial capital, an economic resource measured in terms of money Capital good Human capital Natural capital Public capital Social capital Architecture and buildings Capital (architecture), the topmost member of a column or pilaster The Capital (building), a commercial building in Mumbai, India Capital (fortification), a proportion of a bastion Arts, entertainment and media Literature Books Capital (novel), by John Lanchester, 2012 Das Kapital ('Capital: Critique of Political Economy'), a foundational theoretical text by Karl Marx Capital in the Twenty-First Century by Thomas Piketty, 2013 Capital: The Eruption of Delhi, a 2014 book by Rana Dasgupta Periodicals Capital (French magazine), a French-language magazine Capital (German magazine), a German-language magazine Kapital (magazine), in Norway Capital (newspaper), in Bulgaria Kapital (newspaper), in North Macedonia Capital (Romanian newspaper) Capital (Ukrainian newspaper) Capital (Ethiopia), a newspaper A Capital, a defunct daily newspaper in Lisbon, Portugal Capital New York, an online news site owned by Politico The Capital, a daily newspaper based in Annapolis, Maryland, U.S. Film and television Capital (film), a 2012 French drama Capital (British TV series), a 2015 adaptation of Lanchester's novel Capital (Iranian TV series), 2011–2020 Capital TV, a former British rolling-music TV channel Capital TV (Belarus), a TV channel CTC (TV station), formerly called Capital Television, Ten Capital and Capital 7 Capital Television (New Zealand), a former television channel in Wellington, the capital of New Zealand, operated by TVNZ Music Capital (album), by Mick Softley, 1976 Capital (band), a British band "Capital (It Fails Us Now)", a song by Gang of Four from the 1982 album Another Day/Another Dollar Education Capital College (disambiguation), the name of several institutions Capital Community College, in Hartford, Connecticut, U.S. Capital University, in Bexley, Ohio, U.S. Capital University, Jharkhand, in India Sports Capital CF, a Brazilian football club Delhi Capitals, an Indian cricket team Delhi Capitals (basketball), an Indian basketball team Edinburgh Capitals, a Scottish ice-hockey team Edmonton Capitals, a Canadian baseball team University of Canberra Capitals, an Australian women's basketball team Vienna Capitals, an Austrian ice-hockey team Washington Capitals, an American ice hockey team Transportation Capital (sidewheeler), a 19th-century American steamboat Capital Airlines (disambiguation), several uses Capital ship, a classification of a naval vessel Other uses Capital (radio network), a group of radio stations operating across the United Kingdom Capitals (typeface), a serif font composed entirely of capital letters See also Capitalism (disambiguation) Capitalization (disambiguation) Capital City (disambiguation) Capital Radio (disambiguation) Capital region (disambiguation) Captal, a medieval feudal title in Gascony Capital (economics) External links
Present-day telecommunications in Canada include telephone, radio, television, and internet usage. In the past, telecommunications included telegraphy available through Canadian Pacific and Canadian National. History The history of telegraphy in Canada dates back to the Province of Canada. While the first telegraph company was the Toronto, Hamilton and Niagara Electro-Magnetic Telegraph Company, founded in 1846, it was the Montreal Telegraph Company, controlled by Hugh Allan and founded a year later, that dominated in Canada during the technology's early years. Following the 1852 Telegraph Act, Canada's first permanent transatlantic telegraph link was a submarine cable built in 1866 between Ireland and Newfoundland. Telegrams were sent through networks built by Canadian Pacific and Canadian National. In 1868 Montreal Telegraph began facing competition from the newly established Dominion Telegraph Company. 1880 saw the Great North Western Telegraph Company established to connect Ontario and Manitoba but within a year it was taken over by Western Union, leading briefly to that company's control of almost all telegraphy in Canada. In 1882, Canadian Pacific transmitted its first commercial telegram over telegraph lines they had erected alongside its tracks, breaking Western Union's monopoly. Great North Western Telegraph, facing bankruptcy, was taken over in 1915 by Canadian Northern. By the end of World War II, Canadians communicated by telephone, more than any other country. In 1967 the CP and CN networks were merged to form CNCP Telecommunications. As of 1951, approximately 7000 messages were sent daily from the United States to Canada. An agreement with Western Union required that U.S. company to route messages in a specified ratio of 3:1, with three telegraphic messages transmitted to Canadian National for every message transmitted to Canadian Pacific. The agreement was complicated by the fact that some Canadian destinations were served by only one of the two networks. Fixed-line telephony Telephones - fixed lines: total subscriptions: 13.926 million (2020) Subscriptions per 100 inhabitants: 36.9 (2020 est.) Telephones - mobile cellular: 36,093,021 (2020) Subscriptions per 100 inhabitants: 95.63 (2020 est.) Telephone system: (2019) Domestic: Nearly 37 per 100 fixed-line and 96 per 100 mobile-cellular teledensity; domestic satellite system with about 300 earth stations (2020) International: country code - +1; submarine cables provide links within the Americas and Europe; satellite earth stations - 7 (5 Intelsat - 4 trans-Atlantic Ocean and 1 trans-Pacific Ocean, and 2 Intersputnik - (Atlantic Ocean region) Call signs ITU prefixes: Letter combinations available for use in Canada as the first two letters of a television or radio station's call sign are CF, CG, CH, CI, CJ, CK, CY, CZ, VA, VB, VC, VD, VE, VF, VG, VO, VX, VY, XJ, XK, XL, XM, XN and XO. Only CF, CH, CI, CJ and CK are currently in common use, although four radio stations in St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador retained call letters beginning with VO when Newfoundland joined Canadian Confederation in 1949. Stations owned by the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation use CB through a special agreement with the government of Chile. Some codes beginning with VE and VF are also in use to identify radio repeater transmitters. Radio As of 2016, there were over 1,100 radio stations and audio services broadcasting in Canada. Of these, 711 are private commercial radio stations. These commercial stations account for over three quarters of radio stations in Canada. The remainder of the radio stations are a mix of public broadcasters, such as CBC Radio, as well as campus, community, and Aboriginal stations. Television As of 2018, 762 TV services were broadcasting in Canada. This includes both conventional television stations and discretionary services. Cable and satellite television services are available throughout Canada. The largest cable providers are Bell Canada, Rogers Cable, Shaw Cable, Vidéotron, Telus and Cogeco, while the two licensed satellite providers are Bell Satellite TV and Shaw Direct. Internet Bell, Rogers, Telus, and Shaw are among the bigger ISPs in Canada. Depending on your location, Bell and Rogers would be the big internet service providers in Eastern provinces, while Shaw and Telus are the main players competing in western provinces. Internet service providers: there are more than 44 ISPs in Canada, including Beanfield, Bell Canada, Cable Axion, Cablevision (Canada), Chebucto Community Net, Cogeco, Colbanet, Craig Wireless, Dery Telecom, Eastlink (company), Electronic Box, Everus Communications, Guest-tek, Information Gateway Services, Internet Access Solutions, Internex Online, Inukshuk Wireless, Jet2.net, Look Communications, Managed Network Systems, Inc., Mountain Cablevision, National Capital FreeNet, Novus Entertainment, Ontera, Persona Communications, Primus Canada, Project Chapleau, Qiniq, Rally Internet, Rogers Hi-Speed Internet, Rose Media, Rush Communications Ltd., SaskTel, Seaside Communications, Shaw Communications, Source Cable, SSI Micro, TAO (collective), TekSavvy, Telus, Telus Internet, Vidéotron, Vmedia, Web Community Resource Networks, Wireless Nomad, YourLink Internet Exchange Points: There are multiple Internet Exchange Points in Canada, the largest of which are in Calgary, Montreal, Toronto and Vancouver. Most ISP's peer at one or more of these Exchanges, except for Bell Canada. The Toronto Internet Exchange ranks as one of the largest internet exchanges in the world. Country codes: .CA, CDN, 124 Internet users: 33 million users Internet hosts: 8.7 million (2012-2017) Percentage of households with Internet access: 87(2016) Total households with high speed connection: 67% (2014) Total users of home online banking: 68% (2016) Mobile networks The three major mobile network operators are Rogers Wireless (10.4 million subscribers), Bell Mobility (9.8 million) and Telus Mobility (9.5 million), which have a combined 86% of market share. Administration and Government Federally, telecommunications are overseen by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission ()–CRTC as outlined under the provisions of both the Telecommunications Act and Radiocommunication Acts. CRTC further works with Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada (formerly Industry Canada) on various technical aspects including: allocating frequencies and call signs, managing the broadcast spectrum, and regulating other technical issues such as interference with electronics equipment. As Canada comprises a part of the North American Numbering Plan for area codes, the Canadian Numbering Administration Consortium within Canada is responsible for allocating and managing area codes in Canada. See also Media in Canada List of newspapers in Canada List of mobile network operators of the Americas List of telephone operating companies List of area codes in Canada List of postcode areas in Canada Canadian Association of Broadcasters Canadian Broadcast Standards Council Canadian Broadcasting Corporation Canadian Communications Foundation References Further reading Bibliography Canada’s internet infrastructure Internet Exchange Points (IXPs), Canadian Internet Registration Authority (CIRA) Canadian Area Codes, Canadian Numbering Administration Consortium, Inc. (CNAC) Canada, SubmarineCableMap.com National Broadband Internet Service Availability Map, Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada External links The Canadian Communications Foundation – A History of Canadian Broadcasting Find Service Providers in Canada, CRTC (Mobile, Phone, Internet, or free/paid TV) by location Compare Internet & Phone Plans in Canada – Free Online Comparison Tool
The Cheirogaleidae are the family of strepsirrhine primates containing the various dwarf and mouse lemurs. Like all other lemurs, cheirogaleids live exclusively on the island of Madagascar. Characteristics Cheirogaleids are smaller than the other lemurs and, in fact, they are the smallest primates. They have soft, long fur, colored grey-brown to reddish on top, with a generally brighter underbelly. Typically, they have small ears, large, close-set eyes, and long hind legs. Like all strepsirrhines, they have fine claws at the second toe of the hind legs. They grow to a size of only 13 to 28 cm, with a tail that is very long, sometimes up to one and a half times as long as the body. They weigh no more than 500 grams, with some species weighing as little as 60 grams. Dwarf and mouse lemurs are nocturnal and arboreal. They are excellent climbers and can also jump far, using their long tails for balance. When on the ground (a rare occurrence), they move by hopping on their hind legs. They spend the day in tree hollows or leaf nests. Cheirogaleids are typically solitary, but sometimes live together in pairs. Their eyes possess a tapetum lucidum, a light-reflecting layer that improves their night vision. Some species, such as the lesser dwarf lemur, store fat at the hind legs and the base of the tail, and hibernate. Unlike lemurids, they have long upper incisors, although they do have the comb-like teeth typical of all strepsirhines. They have the dental formula: Cheirogaleids are omnivores, eating fruits, flowers and leaves (and sometimes nectar), as well as insects, spiders, and small vertebrates. The females usually have three pairs of nipples. After a meager 60-day gestation, they will bear two to four (usually two or three) young. After five to six weeks, the young are weaned and become fully mature near the end of their first year or sometime in their second year, depending on the species. In human care, they can live for up to 15 years, although their life expectancy in the wild is probably significantly shorter. Classification The five genera of cheirogaleids contain 42 species. Infraorder Lemuriformes Family Cheirogaleidae Genus Cheirogaleus: dwarf lemurs Montagne d'Ambre dwarf lemur, Cheirogaleus andysabini Furry-eared dwarf lemur, Cheirogaleus crossleyi Groves' dwarf lemur, Cheirogaleus grovesi Lavasoa dwarf lemur, Cheirogaleus lavasoensis Greater dwarf lemur, Cheirogaleus major Fat-tailed dwarf lemur, Cheirogaleus medius Lesser iron-gray dwarf lemur, Cheirogaleus minusculus Ankarana dwarf lemur, Cheirogaleus shethi Sibree's dwarf lemur, Cheirogaleus sibreei Thomas' dwarf lemur, Cheirogaleus thomasi Genus Microcebus: mouse lemurs Arnhold's mouse lemur, Microcebus arnholdi Madame Berthe's mouse lemur, Microcebus berthae Bongolava mouse lemur Microcebus bongolavensis Boraha mouse lemur Microcebus boraha Danfoss' mouse lemur Microcebus danfossi Ganzhorn's mouse lemur. Microcebus ganzhorni Gerp's mouse lemur. Microcebus gerpi Reddish-gray mouse lemur, Microcebus griseorufus Jolly's mouse lemur, Microcebus jollyae Jonah's mouse lemur, Microcebus jonahi Goodman's mouse lemur, Microcebus lehilahytsara MacArthur's mouse lemur, Microcebus macarthurii Claire's mouse lemur, Microcebus mamiratra, synonymous to M. lokobensis Bemanasy mouse lemur, Microcebus manitatra Margot Marsh's mouse lemur, Microcebus margotmarshae Marohita mouse lemur, Microcebus marohita Mittermeier's mouse lemur, Microcebus mittermeieri Gray mouse lemur, Microcebus murinus Pygmy mouse lemur, Microcebus myoxinus Golden-brown mouse lemur, Microcebus ravelobensis Brown mouse lemur, Microcebus rufus Sambirano mouse lemur, Microcebus sambiranensis Simmons' mouse lemur, Microcebus simmonsi Anosy mouse lemur. Microcebus tanosi Northern rufous mouse lemur, Microcebus tavaratra Genus Mirza: giant mouse lemurs Coquerel's giant mouse lemur or Coquerel's dwarf lemur, Mirza coquereli Northern giant mouse lemur, Mirza zaza Genus Allocebus Hairy-eared dwarf lemur, Allocebus trichotis Genus Phaner: fork-marked lemurs Masoala fork-marked lemur, Phaner furcifer Pale fork-marked lemur, Phaner pallescens Pariente's fork-marked lemur, Phaner parienti Amber Mountain fork-marked lemur, Phaner electromontis Footnotes According to the letter of the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature, the correct name for this family should be Microcebidae, but the name Cheirogaleidae has been retained for stability. In 2008, 7 new species of Microcebus were formally recognized, but Microcebus lokobensis (Lokobe mouse lemur) was not among the additions, even though it was described in 2006. Therefore, its status as a species is still questionable. References Lemurs Primate families Taxa named by John Edward Gray Taxa described in 1873
The Callitrichidae (also called Arctopitheci or Hapalidae) are a family of New World monkeys, including marmosets, tamarins, and lion tamarins. At times, this group of animals has been regarded as a subfamily, called the Callitrichinae, of the family Cebidae. This taxon was traditionally thought to be a primitive lineage, from which all the larger-bodied platyrrhines evolved. However, some works argue that callitrichids are actually a dwarfed lineage. Ancestral stem-callitrichids likely were "normal-sized" ceboids that were dwarfed through evolutionary time. This may exemplify a rare example of insular dwarfing in a mainland context, with the "islands" being formed by biogeographic barriers during arid climatic periods when forest distribution became patchy, and/or by the extensive river networks in the Amazon Basin. All callitrichids are arboreal. They are the smallest of the simian primates. They eat insects, fruit, and the sap or gum from trees; occasionally, they take small vertebrates. The marmosets rely quite heavily on tree exudates, with some species (e.g. Callithrix jacchus and Cebuella pygmaea) considered obligate exudativores. Callitrichids typically live in small, territorial groups of about five or six animals. Their social organization is unique among primates, and is called a "cooperative polyandrous group". This communal breeding system involves groups of multiple males and females, but only one female is reproductively active. Females mate with more than one male and each shares the responsibility of carrying the offspring. They are the only primate group that regularly produces twins, which constitute over 80% of births in species that have been studied. Unlike other male primates, male callitrichids generally provide as much parental care as females. Parental duties may include carrying, protecting, feeding, comforting, and even engaging in play behavior with offspring. In some cases, such as in the cotton-top tamarin (Saguinus oedipus), males, particularly those that are paternal, even show a greater involvement in caregiving than females. The typical social structure seems to constitute a breeding group, with several of their previous offspring living in the group and providing significant help in rearing the young. Species and subspecies list Taxa included in the Callitrichidae are: Family Callitrichidae Genus Saguinus Subgenus Saguinus Red-handed tamarin, Saguinus midas Western black tamarin, Saguinus niger Eastern black-handed tamarin, Saguinus ursulus Pied tamarin, Saguinus bicolor Martins's tamarin, Saguinus martinsi Saguinus martinsi martinsi Saguinus martinsi ochraceus White-footed tamarin, Saguinus leucopus Cottontop tamarin, Saguinus oedipus Geoffroy's tamarin, Saguinus geoffroyi Subgenus Tamarinus Moustached tamarin, Saguinus mystax Spix's moustached tamarin, Saguinus mystax mystax Red-capped moustached tamarin, Saguinus mystax pileatus White-rump moustached tamarin, Saguinus mystax pluto White-lipped tamarin, Saguinus labiatus Geoffroy's red-bellied tamarin, Saguinus labiatus labiatus Gray's red-bellied tamarin, Saguinus labiatus rufiventer Thomas's red-bellied tamarin, Saguinus labiatus thomasi Emperor tamarin, Saguinus imperator Black-chinned emperor tamarin, Saguinus imperator imperator Bearded emperor tamarin, Saguinus imperator subgrisescens Mottle-faced tamarin, Saguinus inustus Genus Leontocebus Black-mantled tamarin, Leontocebus nigricollis Spix's black-mantle tamarin, Leontocebus nigricollis nigricollis Graells's tamarin, Leontocebus nigricollis graellsi Hernández-Camacho's black-mantle tamarin, Leontocebus nigricollis hernandezi Brown-mantled tamarin, Leontocebus fuscicollis Avila Pires' saddle-back tamarin, Leontocebus fuscicollis avilapiresi Spix's saddle-back tamarin, Leontocebus fuscicollis fuscicollis Mura's saddleback tamarin, Leontocebus fuscicollis mura Lako's saddleback tamarin, Leontocebus fuscicollis primitivus Andean saddle-back tamarin, Leontocebus leucogenys Lesson's saddle-back tamarin, Leontocebus fuscus Cruz Lima's saddle-back tamarin, Leontocebus cruzlimai Weddell's saddle-back tamarin, Leontocebus weddelli Weddell's tamarin, Leontocebus weddelli weddelli Crandall's saddle-back tamarin, Leontocebus weddelli crandalli White-mantled tamarin, Leontocebus weddelli melanoleucus Golden-mantled tamarin, Leontocebus tripartitus Illiger's saddle-back tamarin, Leontocebus illigeri Red-mantled saddle-back tamarin, Leontocebus lagonotus Geoffroy's saddle-back tamarin, Leontocebus nigrifrons Genus Leontopithecus Golden lion tamarin, Leontopithecus rosalia Golden-headed lion tamarin, Leontopithecus chrysomelas Black lion tamarin, Leontopithecus chrysopygus Superagui lion tamarin, Leontopithecus caissara Genus Patasola Patasola magdalenae Genus Micodon Micodon kiotensis Genus Callimico Goeldi's marmoset, Callimico goeldii Genus Mico Silvery marmoset, Mico argentatus Roosmalens' dwarf marmoset, Mico humilis White marmoset, Mico leucippe Black-tailed marmoset, Mico melanurus Schneider's marmoset, Mico schneideri Hershkovitz's marmoset, Mico intermedia Emilia's marmoset, Mico emiliae Black-headed marmoset, Mico nigriceps Marca's marmoset, Mico marcai Santarem marmoset, Mico humeralifer Gold-and-white marmoset, Mico chrysoleucos Maués marmoset, Mico mauesi Sateré marmoset, Mico saterei Rio Acarí marmoset, Mico acariensis Rondon's marmoset, Mico rondoni Munduruku marmoset, Mico munduruku Genus Cebuella Western pygmy marmoset, Cebuella pygmaea Eastern pygmy marmoset, Cebuella niveiventris Genus Callithrix Common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus Black-tufted marmoset, Callithrix penicillata Wied's marmoset, Callithrix kuhlii White-headed marmoset, Callithrix geoffroyi Buffy-tufted marmoset, Callithrix aurita Buffy-headed marmoset, Callithrix flaviceps References External links Primate families Taxa named by Oldfield Thomas Taxa described in 1903
The Cebidae are one of the five families of New World monkeys now recognised. Extant members are the capuchin and squirrel monkeys. These species are found throughout tropical and subtropical South and Central America. Characteristics Cebid monkeys are arboreal animals that only rarely travel on the ground. They are generally small monkeys, ranging in size up to that of the brown capuchin, with a body length of 33 to 56 cm, and a weight of 2.5 to 3.9 kilograms. They are somewhat variable in form and coloration, but all have the wide, flat, noses typical of New World monkeys. They are omnivorous, mostly eating fruit and insects, although the proportions of these foods vary greatly between species. They have the dental formula: Females give birth to one or two young after a gestation period of between 130 and 170 days, depending on species. They are social animals, living in groups of between five and forty individuals, with the smaller species typically forming larger groups. They are generally diurnal in habit. Classification Previously, New World monkeys were divided between Callitrichidae and this family. For a few recent years, marmosets, tamarins, and lion tamarins were placed as a subfamily (Callitrichinae) in Cebidae, while moving other genera from Cebidae into the families Aotidae, Pitheciidae and Atelidae. The most recent classification of New World monkeys again splits the callitrichids off, leaving only the capuchins and squirrel monkeys in this family. Subfamily Cebinae (capuchin monkeys) Genus Cebus (gracile capuchin monkeys) Colombian white-faced capuchin or Colombian white-headed capuchin, Cebus capucinus Panamanian white-faced capuchin or Panamanian white-headed capuchin, Cebus imitator Marañón white-fronted capuchin, Cebus yuracus Shock-headed capuchin, Cebus cuscinus Spix's white-fronted capuchin, Cebus unicolor Humboldt's white-fronted capuchin, Cebus albifrons Guianan weeper capuchin, Cebus olivaceus Chestnut capuchin, Cebus castaneus Ka'apor capuchin, Cebus kaapori Venezuelan brown capuchin, Cebus brunneus Sierra de Perijá white-fronted capuchin, Cebus leucocephalus Río Cesar white-fronted capuchin, Cebus cesare Varied white-fronted capuchin, Cebus versicolor Santa Marta white-fronted capuchin, Cebus malitiosus Ecuadorian white-fronted capuchin, Cebus aequatorialis Genus Sapajus (robust capuchin monkeys) Tufted capuchin, Sapajus apella Blond capuchin, Sapajus flavius Black-striped capuchin, Sapajus libidinosus Azaras's capuchin, Sapajus cay Black capuchin, Sapajus nigritus Crested capuchin, Sapajus robustus Golden-bellied capuchin, Sapajus xanthosternos Subfamily Saimiriinae (squirrel monkeys) Genus Saimiri Bare-eared squirrel monkey, Saimiri ustus Black squirrel monkey, Saimiri vanzolinii Black-capped squirrel monkey, Saimiri boliviensis Central American squirrel monkey, Saimiri oerstedi Guianan squirrel monkey, Saimiri sciureus Humboldt's squirrel monkey, Saimiri cassiquiarensis Collins' squirrel monkey, Saimiri collinsi Extinct taxa Genus Panamacebus Panamacebus transitus Subfamily Cebinae Genus Acrecebus Acrecebus fraileyi Genus Killikaike Killikaike blakei Genus Dolichocebus Dolichocebus gaimanensis Subfamily Saimiriinae Genus Saimiri Saimiri fieldsi Saimiri annectens Genus Patasola Patasola magdalenae References New World monkeys Primate families Taxa named by Charles Lucien Bonaparte Taxa described in 1831
This is a list of lists of universities and colleges. Subject of study Aerospace engineering Agriculture Art schools Business Chiropractic Engineering Forestry Law Maritime studies Medicine Music Nanotechnology Osteopathy Pharmaceuticals Social Work Institution type Community colleges For-profit universities and colleges Land-grant universities Liberal arts universities National universities Postgraduate-only institutions Private universities Public universities Research universities Technical universities Sea-grant universities Space-grant universities State universities and colleges Unaccredited universities Location Lists of universities and colleges by country List of largest universities Religious affiliation Assemblies of God Baptist colleges and universities in the United States Catholic universities Ecclesiastical universities Benedictine colleges and universities Jesuit institutions Opus Dei universities Pontifical universities International Council of Universities of Saint Thomas Aquinas International Federation of Catholic Universities Christian churches and churches of Christ Churches of Christ Church of the Nazarene Islamic seminaries Lutheran colleges and universities International Association of Methodist-related Schools, Colleges, and Universities Muslim educational institutions Association of Presbyterian Colleges and Universities Extremities Endowment Largest universities by enrollment Oldest madrasahs in continuous operation Oldest universities in continuous operation Other Colleges and universities named after people History Medieval universities Ancient universities in Britain and Ireland See also Lists of schools Distance education
Civil law may refer to: Civil law (common law), the part of law that concerns private citizens and legal persons Civil law (legal system), or continental law, a legal system originating in continental Europe and based on Roman law Private law, the branch of law in a civil law legal system that concerns relations among private individuals Municipal law, the domestic law of a state, as opposed to international law See also Civil code Civil (disambiguation) Ius civile, Latin for "civil law" Common law (disambiguation) Criminal law
A court of appeals is generally an appellate court. Court of Appeals may refer to: Israeli Military Court of Appeals (Italy) Court of Appeals of the Philippines High Court of Appeals of Turkey Court of Appeals (Vatican City) United States Courts of appeals Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit Court of Appeals for the First Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit Emergency Court of Appeals Temporary Emergency Court of Appeals (defunct) Alabama Court of Appeals (existed until 1969) Alaska Court of Appeals Arizona Court of Appeals Arkansas Court of Appeals Colorado Court of Appeals District of Columbia Court of Appeals Georgia Court of Appeals Hawaii Intermediate Court of Appeals Idaho Court of Appeals Illinois Court of Appeals Indiana Court of Appeals Iowa Court of Appeals Kansas Court of Appeals Kentucky Court of Appeals Louisiana Court of Appeals Maryland Court of Appeals Michigan Court of Appeals Minnesota Court of Appeals Mississippi Court of Appeals Missouri Court of Appeals Nebraska Court of Appeals New Mexico Court of Appeals New York Court of Appeals North Carolina Court of Appeals North Dakota Court of Appeals Ohio Seventh District Court of Appeals Ohio Eleventh District Court of Appeals Oregon Court of Appeals South Carolina Court of Appeals Tennessee Court of Appeals Texas Courts of Appeals Fifth Court of Appeals Utah Court of Appeals Court of Appeals of Virginia Washington Court of Appeals Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia Wisconsin Court of Appeals See also Court of Appeal (disambiguation) Court of Criminal Appeal (disambiguation) Appeal State court (United States)#Nomenclature List of legal topics Federal Court of Appeals (disambiguation)
Character or Characters may refer to: Arts, entertainment, and media Literature Character (novel), a 1936 Dutch novel by Ferdinand Bordewijk Characters (Theophrastus), a classical Greek set of character sketches attributed to Theophrastus Music Characters (John Abercrombie album), 1977 Character (Dark Tranquillity album), 2005 Character (Julia Kent album), 2013 Character (Rachael Sage album), 2020 Characters (Stevie Wonder album), 1987 Types of entity Character (arts), an agent within a work of art, including literature, drama, cinema, opera, etc. Character sketch or character, a literary description of a character type Game character (disambiguation), various types of characters in a video game or role playing game Player character, as above but who is controlled or whose actions are directly chosen by a player Non-player character, as above but not player-controlled, frequently abbreviated as NPC Other uses in arts, entertainment, and media Character (film), a 1997 Dutch film based on Bordewijk's novel Charaktery, a monthly magazine in Poland Netflix Presents: The Characters, an improvised sketch comedy show on Netflix Mathematics Character (mathematics), a homomorphism from a group to a field Characterization (mathematics), the logical equivalency between objects of two different domains. Character theory, the mathematical theory of special kinds of characters associated to group representations Dirichlet character, a type of character in number theory Multiplicative character, a homomorphism from a group to the multiplicative subgroup of a field Morality and social science Character education, a US term for values education Character structure, a person's traits Moral character, an evaluation of a particular individual's durable moral qualities Symbols Character (symbol), a sign or symbol Character (computing), a unit of information roughly corresponding to a grapheme Other uses Character (biology), the abstraction of an observable physical or biochemical trait of an organism Character (income tax), a type of income for tax purposes in the US Sacramental character, a Catholic teaching Neighbourhood character, the look and feel of a built environment See also (character) (disambiguation) Virtual character (disambiguation)
A car is a wheeled motor vehicle used for transporting passengers. Car(s), CAR(s), or The Car(s) may also refer to: Computing C.a.R. (Z.u.L.), geometry software CAR and CDR, commands in LISP computer programming Clock with Adaptive Replacement, a page replacement algorithm Computer-assisted reporting Computer-assisted reviewing Economics Capital adequacy ratio, a ratio of a bank's capital to its risk Cost accrual ratio, an accounting formula Cumulative abnormal return Cumulative average return, a financial concept related to the time value of money Film and television Cars (franchise), a Disney/Pixar film series Cars (film), a 2006 computer-animated film from Disney and Pixar The Car (1977 film), an American horror film Car, a BBC Two television ident first aired in 1993 (see BBC Two '1991–2001' idents) The Car (1997 film), a Malayalam film "The Car" (The Assistants episode) Literature Car (magazine), a British auto-enthusiast publication The Car (novel), a novel by Gary Paulsen Military Canadian Airborne Regiment, a Canadian Forces formation Colt Automatic Rifle, a 5.56mm NATO firearm Combat Action Ribbon, a United States military decoration U.S. Army Combat Arms Regimental System, a 1950s reorganisation of the regiments of the US Army Conflict Armament Research, a UK-based investigative organization that tracks the supply of armaments into conflict-affected areas Music The Cars, an American band Albums Peter Gabriel (1977 album) or Car The Cars (album), a 1978 album by The Cars Cars (soundtrack), the soundtrack to the 2006 film Cars (Now, Now Every Children album), 2009 Cars, a 2011 album by Kris Delmhorst C.A.R. (album), a 2012 album by Serengeti The Car (album), a 2022 album by Arctic Monkeys Songs "The Car" (song), a song by Jeff Carson "Cars" (song), a 1979 single by Gary Numan "Car", a 1994 song by Built to Spill from There's Nothing Wrong with Love Paintings Cars (painting), a series of paintings by Andy Warhol The Car (Brack), a 1955 painting by John Brack People Car (surname) Cars (surname) Places Car, Azerbaijan, a village Čar, a village in Serbia Cars, Gironde, France, a commune Les Cars, Haute-Vienne, France, a commune Central African Republic Central Asian Republics Cordillera Administrative Region, Philippines County Carlow, Ireland, Chapman code Science Canonical anticommutation relation Carina (constellation) Chimeric antigen receptor, artificial T cell receptors Coherent anti-Stokes Raman spectroscopy Constitutive androstane receptor Cortisol awakening response, on waking from sleep Coxsackievirus and adenovirus receptor, a protein Sports Carolina Hurricanes, a National Hockey League team Carolina Panthers, a National Football League team Club Always Ready, a Bolivian football club from La Paz Rugby Africa, formerly known as Confederation of African Rugby Transportation Railroad car Canada Atlantic Railway, 1879–1914 Canadian Atlantic Railway, 1986–1994 Carlisle railway station's station code Car, the cab of an elevator Car, a tram, streetcar, or trolley car Other uses Car Car (Greek myth), one or two figures in Greek mythology Car language, an Austroasiatic language of the Nicobar Islands in the eastern Indian Ocean car, ISO 639-2 and ISO 639-3 codes of the Carib language, spoken by the Kalina people of South America Cars (video game), a 2006 video game based on the film Chimeric antigen receptor, a type of protein engineered to give T cells the ability to target a specific protein CAR Canadian Aviation Regulations Avis Budget Group (Nasdaq: CAR) Central apparatus room, an equipment room found at broadcasting facilities Children of the American Revolution, a genealogical society or Action Committee for Renewal, a political party of Togo Council for Aboriginal Reconciliation, body founded by the Australian Government in 1991 as part of its Reconciliation in Australia policy Council for Aboriginal Rights (1951–1980s), Victoria, Australia Criminal Appeal Reports, law reports in the United Kingdom See also Carr (disambiguation) CARS (disambiguation) Le Car (disambiguation) iCar
Conditional (if then) may refer to: Causal conditional, if X then Y, where X is a cause of Y Conditional probability, the probability of an event A given that another event B has occurred Conditional proof, in logic: a proof that asserts a conditional, and proves that the antecedent leads to the consequent Strict conditional, in philosophy, logic, and mathematics Material conditional, in propositional calculus, or logical calculus in mathematics Relevance conditional, in relevance logic Conditional (computer programming), a statement or expression in computer programming languages A conditional expression in computer programming languages such as ?: Conditions in a contract Grammar and linguistics Conditional mood (or conditional tense), a verb form in many languages Conditional sentence, a sentence type used to refer to hypothetical situations and their consequences Indicative conditional, a conditional sentence expressing "if A then B" in a natural language Counterfactual conditional, a conditional sentence indicating what would be the case if its antecedent were true Other "Conditional" (Laura Mvula song) Conditional jockey, an apprentice jockey in British or Irish National Hunt racing Conditional short-circuit current Conditional Value-at-Risk See also Condition (disambiguation) Conditional statement (disambiguation)
A cone is a basic geometrical shape. Cone may also refer to: Mathematics Cone (category theory) Cone (formal languages) Cone (graph theory), a graph in which one vertex is adjacent to all others Cone (linear algebra), a subset of vector space Mapping cone (homological algebra) Cone (topology) Conic bundle, a concept in algebraic geometry Conical surface, generated by a moving line with one fixed point Projective cone, the union of all lines that intersect a projective subspace and an arbitrary subset of some other disjoint subspace Computing Cone tracing, a derivative of the ray-tracing algorithm that replaces rays, which have no thickness, with cones Second-order cone programming, a library of routines that implements a predictor corrector variant of the semidefinite programming algorithm Astronomy Cone Nebula (also known as NGC 2264), an H II region in the constellation of Monoceros Ionization cone, cones of material extending out from spiral galaxies Engineering and physical science Antenna blind cone, the volume of space that cannot be scanned by an antenna Carbon nanocones, conical structures which are made predominantly from carbon and which have at least one dimension of the order one micrometer or smaller Cone algorithm identifies surface particles quickly and accurately for three-dimensional clusters composed of discrete particles Cone beam reconstruction, a method of X-ray scanning in microtomography Cone calorimeter, a modern device used to study the fire behavior of small samples of various materials in condensed phase Cone clutch serves the same purpose as a disk or plate clutch Cone of depression occurs in an aquifer when groundwater is pumped from a well Cone penetration test (CPT), an in situ testing method used to determine the geotechnical engineering properties of soils Cone Penetrometer apparatus, an alternative method to the Casagrande Device in measuring the Liquid Limit of a soil sample Conical intersection of two potential energy surfaces of the same spatial and spin symmetries Conical measure, a type of graduated laboratory glassware with a conical cup and a notch on the top to facilitate pouring of liquids Conical mill (or conical screen mill), a machine used to reduce the size of material in a uniform manner Conical pendulum, a weight (or bob) fixed on the end of a string (or rod) suspended from a pivot Conical scanning, a system used in early radar units to improve their accuracy Helical cone beam computed tomography, a type of three-dimensional computed tomography Hertzian cone, the cone of force that propagates through a brittle, amorphous or cryptocrystalline solid material from a point of impact Nose cone, used to refer to the forwardmost section of a rocket, guided missile or aircraft Pyrometric cone, pyrometric devices that are used to gauge time and temperature during the firing of ceramic materials Roller cone bit, a drill bit used for drilling through rock, for example when drilling for oil and gas Skid cone, a hollow steel or plastic cone placed over the sawn end of a log Speaker cone, the cone inside a loudspeaker that moves to generate sound Spinning cone columns are used in a form of steam distillation to gently extract volatile chemicals from liquid foodstuffs Biology and medicine Cone cell, in anatomy, a type of light-sensitive cell found along with rods in the retina of the eye Cone dystrophy, an inherited ocular disorder characterized by the loss of cone cells Cone snail, a carnivorous mollusc of the family Conidae Cone-billed tanager (Conothraupis mesoleuca), a species of bird in the family Thraupidae Conifer cone, a seed-bearing organ on conifer plants Growth cone, a dynamic, actin-supported extension of a developing axon seeking its synaptic target Witch-hazel cone gall aphid (Hormaphis hamamelidis), a minuscule insect, a member of the aphid superfamily Coning, a brain herniation in which the cerebellar tonsils move downwards through the foramen magnum Geography Cinder cone, a steep conical hill of volcanic fragments around and downwind from a volcanic vent Cone (hill), a hill in the shape of a cone which may or may not be volcanic in origin Dirt cone, a feature of a glacier or snow patch, in which dirt forms a coating insulating the ice below Parasitic cone (or satellite cone), a geographical feature found around a volcano Shatter cone, rare geological feature in the bedrock beneath meteorite impact craters or underground nuclear explosions Volcanic cone, among the simplest volcanic formations in the world Lambert conformal conic projection (LCC), a conic map projection, which is often used for aeronautical charts Places Cone (Phrygia), a town and bishopric of ancient Phrygia Cone, Michigan, an unincorporated community in Michigan Cone, Texas, an unincorporated community in Crosby County, Texas, United States Cone Islet, a small granite island in south-eastern Australia Conical Range, a small mountain range in southwestern British Columbia, Canada, between Seymour Inlet and Belize Inlet People Bonnie Ethel Cone (1907–2003), American educator and founder of the University of North Carolina at Charlotte Carin Cone (born 1940), American swimmer, Olympic medalist, world record holder, and gold medal winner from the Pan American Games Chadrick Cone (born 1983), American football wide receiver for the Georgia Force in the Arena Football League Cindy Parlow Cone (born 1978), American soccer player and coach Cone sisters, Claribel Cone (1864–1929), and Etta Cone (1870–1949), collectors and socialites David Cone (born 1963), former Major League Baseball pitcher Edward T. Cone (1917–2004), American music theorist and composer Fairfax M. Cone (1903–1977), director of the American Association of Advertising Agencies Fred Cone (baseball) (1848–1909), pioneer professional baseball player Fred Cone (American football) (born 1926), former professional American football running back Fred P. Cone (1871–1948), twenty-seventh governor of Florida (Frederick Preston) Jason McCaslin (born 1980), nicknamed Cone, bassist for the Canadian band Sum 41 James Hal Cone (born 1938), advocate of Black liberation theology John Cone (born 1974), American professional wrestling referee John J. Cone, the fourth Supreme Knight of the Knights of Columbus from 1898 to 1899 Mac Cone (born 1952), Canadian show jumper Martin Cone (1882–1963), 6th president of St. Ambrose College from 1930 to 1937 Marvin Cone (1891–1965), American painter Reuben Cone (1788–1851), pioneer and landowner in Atlanta, Georgia Robert W. Cone (1957-2016), major general in the United States Army, and Special Assistant to the Commanding General of TRADOC Sara Cone Bryant (1873–?), author of various children's book in the early 20th century Spencer Cone Jones (1836–1915), President of the Maryland State Senate, Mayor of Rockville, Maryland Spencer Houghton Cone (1785–1855), American Baptist minister and president of the American and Foreign Bible Society Tim Cone (born 1957), American basketball coach Other uses Conical Asian hat, a simple style of straw hat originating in East and Southeast Asia Ice cream cone, an edible container in which ice cream is served, shaped like an inverted cone open at its top Snow cone, a dessert usually made of crushed or shaved ice, flavored with sweet, usually fruit-flavored, brightly colored syrup Traffic cone, a brightly colored cone-shaped plastic object commonly used as a temporary traffic barrier or warning sign USS Cone (DD-866), a Gearing-class destroyer of the United States Navy Elizabethan collar or e-collar, a device to keep an animal from licking or biting itself To locate an aircraft using a searchlight Cone Mills Corporation, a textile manufacturer See also Kone (disambiguation) Colne (disambiguation) (pronounced cone) Kegel (disambiguation) (German/Dutch translation of cone)
Catalan may refer to: Catalonia From, or related to Catalonia: Catalan language, a Romance language Catalans, an ethnic group formed by the people from, or with origins in, Northern or southern Catalonia Places 13178 Catalan, asteroid #13178, named "Catalan" Catalán (crater), a lunar crater named for Miguel Ángel Catalán Çatalan, İvrindi, a village in Balıkesir province, Turkey Çatalan, Karaisalı, a village in Adana Province, Turkey Catalan Bay, Gibraltar Catalan Sea, more commonly known as the Balearic Sea Catalan Mediterranean System, the Catalan Mountains Facilities and structures Çatalan Bridge, Adana, Turkey Çatalan Dam, Adana, Turkey Catalan Batteries, Gibraltar People Catalan, Lord of Monaco (1415–1457), Lord of Monaco from 1454 until 1457 Alfredo Catalán (born 1968), Venezuelan politician Alex Catalán (born 1968), Spanish filmmaker Arnaut Catalan (1219–1253), troubador Diego Catalán (1928–2008), Spanish philologist Emilio Arenales Catalán (1922–1969) Guatemalan politician Eugène Charles Catalan (1814–1894), French and Belgian mathematician Miguel A. Catalán (1894–1957), Spanish spectroscopist Moses Chayyim Catalan (died 1661), Italian rabbi Sergio Catalán (born 1991) Chilean soccer player Mathematics Mathematical concepts named after mathematician Eugène Catalan: Catalan numbers, a sequence of natural numbers that occur in various counting problems Catalan solids, a family of polyhedra Catalan's constant, a number that occurs in estimates in combinatorics Catalan's conjecture Wine Catalan (grape), another name for the wine grape Mourvèdre Catalan wine, an alternative name used in France for wine made from the Carignan grape Carignan, a wine grape that is also known as Catalan Sports and games Catalan Opening, in chess Catalan Open, golf tournament Catalans Dragons, a rugby league team often known simply as Catalan XIII Catalan, a rugby league team from Perpignan, France Other uses Battle of Catalán (1817) in Uruguay Catalan Sheepdog Catalan Company, medieval mercenary company Catalan vault, architectural design element The Catalans, a 1953 novel by Patrick O'Brian See also Catalonia (disambiguation) Catalunya (disambiguation) Catalan exonyms Anti-Catalanism Language and nationality disambiguation pages Ethnonymic surnames
The Politics of Chad take place in a framework of a presidential republic, whereby the President of Chad is both head of state and head of government. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and parliament. Chad is one of the most corrupt countries in the world. In May 2013, security forces in Chad foiled a coup against the President Idriss Deby that had been in preparation for several months. In April 2021, President Déby was injured by the rebel group Front Pour l'Alternance et La Concorde au Tchad (FACT). He succumbed to his injuries on April 20, 2021. His presidency was taken by his family member Mahamat Déby in April of 2021. This resulted in both the National Assembly and Chadian Government being dissolved and replaced with a Transitional Military Council. The National Transitional Council will oversee the transition to democracy. Executive branch |President |Mahamat Déby |Patriotic Salvation Movement |20 April 2021 |} Chad's executive branch is headed by the President and dominates the Chadian political system. Following the military overthrow of Hissène Habré in December 1990, Idriss Déby won the presidential elections in 1996 and 2001. The constitutional basis for the government is the 1996 constitution, under which the president was limited to two terms of office until Déby had that provision repealed in 2005. The president has the power to appoint the Council of State (or cabinet), and exercises considerable influence over appointments of judges, generals, provincial officials and heads of Chad's parastatal firms. In cases of grave and immediate threat, the president, in consultation with the National Assembly President and Council of State, may declare a state of emergency. Most of the key advisors for former president Déby were members of the Zaghawa clan, although some southern and opposition personalities were represented in his government. Legislative branch According to the 1996 constitution, the National Assembly deputies are elected by universal suffrage for 4-year terms. The Assembly holds regular sessions twice a year, starting in March and October, and can hold special sessions as necessary and called by the prime minister. Deputies elect a president of the National Assembly every 2 years. Assembly deputies or members of the executive branch may introduce legislation; once passed by the Assembly, the president must take action to either sign or reject the law within 15 days. The National Assembly must approve the prime minister's plan of government and may force the prime minister to resign through a majority vote of no-confidence. However, if the National Assembly rejects the executive branch's program twice in one year, the president may disband the Assembly and call for new legislative elections. In practice, the president exercises considerable influence over the National Assembly through the MPS party structure. Judicial branch Despite the constitution's guarantee of judicial independence from the executive branch, the president names most key judicial officials. The Supreme Court is made up of a chief justice, named by the president, and 15 councilors chosen by the president and National Assembly; appointments are for life. The Constitutional Council, with nine judges elected to 9-year terms, has the power to review all legislation, treaties and international agreements prior to their adoption. The constitution recognizes customary and traditional law in locales where it is recognized and to the extent it does not interfere with public order or constitutional guarantees of equality for all citizens. Political parties and elections Presidential elections Parliamentary elections International organization participation ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AU, BDEAC, CEMAC, FAO, FZ, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, ITU, MIGA, NAM, OIC, ONUB, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNOCI, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO 2021 government shakeup On 20 April 2021, following the death of longtime Chad President Idriss Déby, the Military of Chad released a statement confirming that both the Government of Chad and the nation's National Assembly had been dissolved and that a Transitional Military Council led by Déby's son Mahamat would lead the nation for at least 18 months. Following protests on 14 May 2022, the authorities in Chad detained several members of civil society organizations. The protests were organized in N’Djamena, and other cities across the country by Chadian civil society organizations, united under the coalition Wakit Tamma. References pt:Chade#Política
The economy of Chad suffers from the landlocked country's geographic remoteness, drought, lack of infrastructure, and political turmoil. About 85% of the population depends on agriculture, including the herding of livestock. Of Africa's Francophone countries, Chad benefited least from the 50% devaluation of their currencies in January 1994. Financial aid from the World Bank, the African Development Bank, and other sources is directed largely at the improvement of agriculture, especially livestock production. Because of lack of financing, the development of oil fields near Doba, originally due to finish in 2000, was delayed until 2003. It was finally developed and is now operated by ExxonMobil. In terms of gross domestic product, Chad ranks 147th globally with $11.051 billion dollars as of 2018. Agriculture Chad produced in 2018: 969 thousand tons of sorghum; 893 thousand tons of peanut butter; 756 thousand tons of millet; 484 thousand tonnes of yam (8th largest producer in the world); 475 thousand tons of sugarcane; 437 thousand tons of maize; 284 thousand tons of cassava; 259 thousand tons of rice; 255 thousand tons of sweet potato; 172 thousand tons of sesame seed; 151 thousand tons of bean; 120 thousand tons of cotton; In addition to smaller productions of other agricultural products. Macro-economic trend The following table shows the main economic indicators in 1980–2017. Other statistics GDP: purchasing power parity – $28.62 billion (2017 est.) GDP – real growth rate: -3.1% (2017 est.) GDP – per capita: $2,300 (2017 est.) Gross national saving: 15.5% of GDP (2017 est.) GDP – composition by sector: agriculture: 52.3% (2017 est.) industry: 14.7% (2017 est.) services: 33.1% (2017 est.) Population below poverty line:: 46.7% (2011 est.) Distribution of family income – Gini index: 43.3 (2011 est.) Inflation rate (consumer prices): -0.9% (2017 est.) Labor force: 5.654 million (2017 est.) Labor force – by occupation: agriculture 80%, industry and services 20% (2006 est.) Budget: revenues: 1.337 billion (2017 est.) expenditures: 1.481 billion (2017 est.) Budget surplus (+) or deficit (-): -1.5% (of GDP) (2017 est.) Public debt: 52.5% of GDP (2017 est.) Industries: oil, cotton textiles, brewing, natron (sodium carbonate), soap, cigarettes, construction materials Industrial production growth rate: -4% (2017 est.) electrification: total population: 4% (2013) electrification: urban areas: 14% (2013) electrification: rural areas: 1% (2013) Electricity – production: 224.3 million kWh (2016 est.) Electricity – production by source: fossil fuel: 98% hydro: 0% nuclear: 0% other renewable: 3% (2017) Electricity – consumption: 208.6 million kWh (2016 est.) Electricity – exports: 0 kWh (2016 est.) Electricity – imports: 0 kWh (2016 est.) Agriculture – products: cotton, sorghum, millet, peanuts, sesame, corn, rice, potatoes, onions, cassava (manioc, tapioca), cattle, sheep, goats, camels Exports: $2.464 billion (2017 est.) Exports – commodities: oil, livestock, cotton, sesame, gum arabic, shea butter Exports – partners: US 38.7%, China 16.6%, Netherlands 15.7%, UAE 12.2%, India 6.3% (2017) Imports: $2.16 billion (2017 est.) Imports – commodities: machinery and transportation equipment, industrial goods, foodstuffs, textiles Imports – partners: China 19.9%, Cameroon 17.2%, France 17%, US 5.4%, India 4.9%, Senegal 4.5% (2017) Debt – external: $1.724 billion (31 December 2017 est.) Reserves of foreign exchange and gold: $22.9 million (31 December 2017 est.) See also Chad Economy of Africa Petroleum industry in Chad United Nations Economic Commission for Africa References General External links Chad latest trade data on ITC Trade Map World Bank – Chad-Cameroon Pipeline Project Chad Chad
Telecommunications in Chad include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet. Radio and television Radio stations: state-owned radio network, Radiodiffusion Nationale Tchadienne (RNT), operates national and regional stations; about 10 private radio stations; some stations rebroadcast programs from international broadcasters (2007); 2 AM, 4 FM, and 5 shortwave stations (2001). Radios: 1.7 million (1997). Television stations: 1 state-owned TV station, Tele Tchad (2007); 1 station (2001). Television sets: 10,000 (1997). Radio is the most important medium of mass communication. State-run Radiodiffusion Nationale Tchadienne operates national and regional radio stations. Around a dozen private radio stations are on the air, despite high licensing fees, some run by religious or other non-profit groups. The BBC World Service (FM 90.6) and Radio France Internationale (RFI) broadcast in the capital, N'Djamena. The only television station, Tele Tchad, is state-owned. State control of many broadcasting outlets allows few dissenting views. Journalists are harassed and attacked. On rare occasions journalists are warned in writing by the High Council for Communication to produce more "responsible" journalism or face fines. Some journalists and publishers practice self-censorship. On 10 October 2012, the High Council on Communications issued a formal warning to La Voix du Paysan, claiming that the station's live broadcast on 30 September incited the public to "insurrection against the government." The station had broadcast a sermon by a bishop who criticized the government for allegedly failing to use oil wealth to benefit the region. Telephones Calling code: +235 International call prefix: 00 Main lines: 29,900 lines in use, 176th in the world (2012); 13,000 lines in use, 201st in the world (2004). Mobile cellular: 4.2 million lines, 119th in the world (2012); 210,000 lines, 155th in the world (2005). Telephone system: inadequate system of radiotelephone communication stations with high costs and low telephone density; fixed-line connections for less than 1 per 100 persons coupled with mobile-cellular subscribership base of only about 35 per 100 persons (2011). Satellite earth stations: 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2011). Internet Top-level domain: .td Internet users: 230,489 users, 149th in the world; 2.1% of the population, 200th in the world (2012); 168,100 users, 145th in the world (2009); 35,000 users, 167th in the world (2005). Fixed broadband: 18,000 subscriptions, 132nd in the world; 0.2% of the population, 161st in the world (2012). Wireless broadband: Unknown (2012). Internet hosts: 6 hosts, 229th in the world (2012); 9 hosts, 217th in the world (2006). IPv4: 4,096 addresses allocated, less than 0.05% of the world total, 0.4 addresses per 1000 people (2012). Internet censorship and surveillance There are no government restrictions on access to the Internet or credible reports that the government monitors e-mail or Internet chat rooms. The constitution provides for freedom of opinion, expression, and press, but the government does not always respect these rights. Private individuals are generally free to criticize the government without reprisal, but reporters and publishers risk harassment from authorities when publishing critical articles. The 2010 media law abolished prison sentences for defamation and insult, but prohibits "inciting racial, ethnic, or religious hatred," which is punishable by one to two years in prison and a fine of one to three million CFA francs ($2,000 to $6,000). See also Radiodiffusion Nationale Tchadienne, state-operated national radio broadcaster. Télé Tchad, state-operated national TV broadcaster. Societe des Telecommunications Internationales du Tchad (SotelTchad), telecommunications parastatal providing landline telephone and Internet services. List of terrestrial fibre optic cable projects in Africa Media of Chad Economy of Chad Chad References External links "Chad still on pace for ICT policy goals", oAfrica, 20 November 2010.
Transport infrastructure within Chad is generally poor, especially in the north and east of the country. River transport is limited to the south-west corner. As of 2011 Chad had no railways though two lines are planned - from the capital to the Sudanese and Cameroonian borders during the wet season, especially in the southern half of the country. In the north, roads are merely tracks across the desert and land mines continue to present a danger. Draft animals (horses, donkeys and camels) remain important in much of the country. Fuel supplies can be erratic, even in the south-west of the country, and are expensive. Elsewhere they are practically non-existent. Railways As of 2011 Chad had no railways. Two lines were planned to Sudan and Cameroon from the capital, with construction expected to start in 2012. No operative lines were listed as of 2019. In 2021, an ADB study was funded for that rail link from Cameroon to Chad. Highways As at 2018 Chad had a total of 44,000 km of roads of which approximately 260 km are paved. Some, but not all of the roads in the capital N'Djamena are paved. Outside of N'Djamena there is one paved road which runs from Massakory in the north, through N'Djamena and then south, through the cities of Guélengdeng, Bongor, Kélo and Moundou, with a short spur leading in the direction of Kousseri, Cameroon, near N'Djamena. Expansion of the road towards Cameroon through Pala and Léré is reportedly in the preparatory stages. Waterways As at 2012, Chari and Logone Rivers were navigable only in wet season (2002). Both flow northwards, from the south of Chad, into Lake Chad. Pipelines Since 2003, a 1,070 km pipeline has been used to export crude oil from the oil fields around Doba to offshore oil-loading facilities on Cameroon's Atlantic coast at Kribi. The CIA World Factbook however cites only 582 km of pipeline in Chad itself as at 2013. Seaports and harbors None (landlocked). Chad's main routes to the sea are: From N'Djamena and the south west of Chad: By road to Ngaoundéré, in Cameroon, and then by rail to Douala By road to Maiduguri, in Nigeria, and then by rail to Port Harcourt From the north and east of Chad: By road across the Sahara desert to Libya In colonial times, the main access was by road to Bangui, in the Central African Republic, then by river boat to Brazzaville, and onwards by rail from Brazzaville to Pointe Noire, on Congo's Atlantic coast. This route is now little used. There is also a route across Sudan, to the Red Sea, but very little trade goes this way. Links with Niger, north of Lake Chad, are practically nonexistent; it is easier to reach Niger via Cameroon and Nigeria. Airports Chad had an estimated 58 airports, only 9 of which had paved runways. In 2015, scheduled airlines in Chad carried approximately 28,332 passengers. Airports with paved runways Statistics on airports with paved runways as of 2017: List of airports with paved runways: Abeche Airport Bol Airport Faya-Largeau Airport Moundou Airport N'Djamena International Airport Sarh Airport Airports - with unpaved runways Statistics on airports with unpaved runways as of 2013: Airline SAGA Airline of Chad - see http://www.airsaga.com Ministry of Transport The Ministry is represented at the regional level by the Regional Delegations, which have jurisdiction over a part of the National Territory as defined by Decree No. 003 / PCE / CTPT / 91. Their organization and responsibilities are defined by Order No. 006 / MTPT / SE / DG / 92. The Regional Delegations are: The Regional Delegation of the Center covering the regions of Batha, Guéra and Salamat with headquarters in Mongo; The Regional Delegation of the Center-Ouest covering the regions of Chari Baguirmi and Hatier Lamis with headquarters Massakory; The North-West Regional Delegation covering the Kanem and Lake regions with headquarters in Mao; The Western Regional Delegation covering the areas of Mayo-East Kebbi, Mayo-West Kebbi and Tandjile with headquarters in Bongor; The Eastern Regional Delegation covering the regions of Wadi Fira and Ouaddai with headquarters in Abéché; The South-East Regional Delegation covering the Mandoul and Moyen Chari regions with headquarters in Sarh; The Southwest Regional Delegation covering the regions of Logone Occidental and Logone Orientai with headquarters in Moundou; The Northern Regional Delegation covering the BET region with headquarters in Faya. Each Regional Delegation is organized into regional services, namely: the Regional Roads Service, the Regional Transport Service, the Civilian Buildings Regional Service and, as needed, other regional services may be established in one or more Delegations . See also Chad Economy of Chad References External links Maps UN Map UNHCR Atlas Map
The Chad National Army (; , ANT) consists of the five Defence and Security Forces listed in Article 185 of the Chadian Constitution that came into effect on 4 May 2018. These are the National Army ((including Ground Forces, and Air Force), the National Gendarmerie), the National Police, the National and Nomadic Guard (GNNT) and the Judicial Police. Article 188 of the Constitution specifies that National Defence is the responsibility of the Army, Gendarmerie and GNNT, whilst the maintenance of public order and security is the responsibility of the Police, Gendarmerie and GNNT. History From independence through the period of the presidency of Félix Malloum (1975–79), the official national army was known as the Chadian Armed Forces (Forces Armées Tchadiennes—FAT). Composed mainly of soldiers from southern Chad, FAT had its roots in the army recruited by France and had military traditions dating back to World War I. FAT lost its status as the legal state army when Malloum's civil and military administration disintegrated in 1979. Although it remained a distinct military body for several years, FAT was eventually reduced to the status of a regional army representing the south. After Habré consolidated his authority and assumed the presidency in 1982, his victorious army, the Armed Forces of the North (Forces Armées du Nord—FAN), became the nucleus of a new national army. The force was officially constituted in January 1983, when the various pro-Habré contingents were merged and renamed the Chadian National Armed Forces (Forces Armées Nationales Tchadiennes—FANT). The Military of Chad was dominated by members of Toubou, Zaghawa, Kanembou, Hadjerai, and Massa ethnic groups during the presidency of Hissène Habré. Later Chadian president Idriss Déby revolted and fled to the Sudan, taking with him many Zaghawa and Hadjerai soldiers in 1989. Chad's armed forces numbered about 36,000 at the end of the Habré regime, but swelled to an estimated 50,000 in the early days of Déby's rule. With French support, a reorganization of the armed forces was initiated early in 1991 with the goal of reducing its numbers and making its ethnic composition reflective of the country as a whole. Neither of these goals was achieved, and the military is still dominated by the Zaghawa. In 2004, the government discovered that many of the soldiers it was paying did not exist and that there were only about 19,000 soldiers in the army, as opposed to the 24,000 that had been previously believed. Government crackdowns against the practice are thought to have been a factor in a failed military mutiny in May 2004. Renewed conflict, in which the Chadian military is involved, came in the form of a civil war against Sudanese-backed rebels. Chad successfully managed to repel many rebel movements, albeit with some losses (see Battle of N'Djamena (2008)). The army used its artillery systems and tanks, but well-equipped insurgents probably managed to destroy over 20 of Chad's 60 T-55 tanks, and probably shot down a Mi-24 Hind gunship, which bombed enemy positions near the border with Sudan. In November 2006 Libya supplied Chad with four Aermacchi SF.260W light attack planes. They were used to strike enemy positions by the Chadian Air Force, but one was shot down by rebels. During the 2008 battle of N'Djamena, gunships and tanks were put to good use, pushing armed militia forces back from the Presidential palace. The battle impacted the highest levels of the army leadership, as Daoud Soumain, its Chief of Staff, was killed. On March 23, 2020 a Chadian army base was ambushed by fighters of the jihadist insurgent group Boko Haram. The army lost 92 servicemen in one day. In response, President Déby launched an operation dubbed "Wrath of Boma". According to Canadian counter terrorism St-Pierre, numerous external operations and rising insecurity in the neighboring countries had recently overstretched the capacities of the Chadian armed forces. After the death of President Idriss Déby on 19 April 2021 in fighting with FACT rebels, his son General Mahamat Idriss Déby was named interim president and head of the armed forces. Budget The CIA World Factbook estimates the military budget of Chad to be 4.2% of GDP as of 2006.. Given the then GDP ($7.095 bln) of the country, military spending was estimated to be about $300 million. This estimate however dropped after the end of the Civil war in Chad (2005–2010) to 2.0% as estimated by the World Bank for the year 2011. There aren't any more recent estimates available. External deployments UN missions non-UN missions Chad participated in a peace mission under the authority of African Union in the neighboring Central African Republic to try to pacify the recent conflict, but has chosen to withdraw after its soldiers were accused of shooting into a marketplace, unprovoked, according to BBC. See also Chad Air Force Chadian Armed Forces Chadian National Armed Forces Nomad and National Guard Notes References R. Hure "L'Armee d' Afrique 1830-1962" John Keegan "World Armies" "Economic Development and the Libya-Chad Wars," Chapter 12 in Kenneth Pollack, Armies of Sand: The Past, Present, and Future of Arab Military Effectiveness, Oxford University Press, New York, 2019. Pages à modifier : https://en.wikip Chadian Civil War (2005–2010)
The foreign relations of Chad are significantly influenced by the desire for oil revenue and investment in Chadian oil industry and support for former Chadian President Idriss Déby. Chad is officially non-aligned but has close relations with France, the former colonial power. Relations with neighbouring Libya, and Sudan vary periodically. Lately, the Idris Déby regime waged an intermittent proxy war with Sudan. Aside from those two countries, Chad generally enjoys good relations with its neighbouring states. Africa Although relations with Libya improved with the presidency of Idriss Déby, strains persist. Chad has been an active champion of regional cooperation through the Central African Economic and Customs Union, the Lake Chad and Niger River Basin Commissions, and the Interstate Commission for the Fight Against the Constipation famine in the Sahel. Delimitation of international boundaries in the vicinity of Lake Chad, the lack of which led to border incidents in the past, has been completed and awaits ratification by Cameroon, Chad, Niger, and Nigeria. Americas Asia Despite centuries-old cultural ties to the Arab World, the Chadian Government maintained few significant ties to Arab states in North Africa or Southwest Asia in the 1980s. Chad had broken off relations with the State of Israel under former Chadian President François (Ngarta) Tombalbaye in September 1972. President Habré hoped to pursue closer relations with Arab states as a potential opportunity to break out of his Chad's post-imperial dependence on France, and to assert Chad's unwillingness to serve as an arena for superpower rivalries. In addition, as a northern Muslim, Habré represented a constituency that favored Afro-Arab solidarity, and he hoped Islam would provide a basis for national unity in the long term. For these reasons, he was expected to seize opportunities during the 1990s to pursue closer ties with the Arab World. In 1988, Chad recognized the State of Palestine, which maintains a mission in N'Djamena. In November 2018, President Deby visited Israel and announced his intention to restore diplomatic relations. Chad and Israel re-established diplomatic relations in January 2019. In February 2023, Chad opened an embassy in Israel. During the 1980s, Arab opinion on the Chadian-Libyan conflict over the Aouzou Strip was divided. Several Arab states supported Libyan territorial claims to the Strip, among the most outspoken of which was Algeria, which provided training for anti-Habré forces, although most recruits for its training programs were from Nigeria or Cameroon, recruited and flown to Algeria by Libya. Lebanon's Progressive Socialist Party also sent troops to support Qadhafi's efforts against Chad in 1987. In contrast, numerous other Arab states opposed the Libyan actions, and expressed their desire to see the dispute over the Aouzou Strip settled peacefully. By the end of 1987, Algiers and N'Djamena were negotiating to improve relations and Algeria helped mediate the end of the Aouzou Strip conflict Europe Chad is officially non-aligned but has close relations with France, the former colonial power, which has about 1,200 troops stationed in the capital N'Djamena. It receives economic aid from countries of the European Community, the United States, and various international organizations. Libya supplies aid and has an ambassador resident in N'Djamena. Traditionally strong ties with the Western community have weakened over the past two years due to a dispute between the Government of Chad and the World Bank over how the profits from Chad's petroleum reserves are allocated. Although oil output to the West has resumed and the dispute has officially been resolved, resentment towards what the Déby administration considered foreign meddling lingers. Oceania Membership of international organizations Chad belongs to the following international organizations: United Nations and some of its specialized and related agencies Organization for African Unity Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) African Financial Community (Franc Zone) Agency for the Francophone Community African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States African Development Bank Central African States Development Bank Economic and Monetary Union of Central African (CEMAC) Economic Commission for Africa; G-77 International Civil Aviation Organization International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement International Development Association Islamic Development Bank International Fund for Agricultural Development International Finance Corporation International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies International Labour Organization International Monetary Fund Intelsat Interpol International Olympic Committee International Telecommunication Union International Trade Union Confederation NAM Organisation of Islamic Cooperation Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons Universal Postal Union World Confederation of Labour World Intellectual Property Organization; World Meteorological Organization; World Tourism Organization World Trade Organization See also List of diplomatic missions in Chad List of diplomatic missions of Chad References
Commentary or commentaries may refer to: Publications Commentary (magazine), a U.S. public affairs journal, founded in 1945 and formerly published by the American Jewish Committee Caesar's Commentaries (disambiguation), a number of works by or attributed to Julius Caesar Commentaries of Ishodad of Merv, set of ninth-century Syriac treatises on the Bible Commentaries on the Laws of England, a 1769 treatise on the common law of England by Sir William Blackstone Commentaries on Living, a series of books by Jiddu Krishnamurti originally published in 1956, 1958 and 1960 Moralia in Job, a sixth-century treatise by Saint Gregory Commentary of Zuo, one of the earliest Chinese works of narrative history, covering the period from 722 to 468 BCE Commentaries, a work attributed to Taautus Other uses Published opinion piece material, in any of several forms: An editorial, written by the editorial staff or board of a newspaper, magazine, or other periodical Column (periodical), a regular feature of such a publication in which usually the same single writer offers advice, observation, or other commentary An op-ed, an opinion piece by an author unaffiliated with the publication Letters to the editor, written by readers of such a publication Posts made in the comments section of an online publication, serving a similar function to paper periodicals' letters to the editor Commentary (philology), a line-by-line or even word-by-word explication (and usually translation) of a text Audio commentary track for DVDs and Blu-Rays – an additional audio track that plays in real-time with the video material, and comments on that video Sports commentary or play-by-play, a running description of a game or event in real time, usually during a live broadcast Color commentary, supplementing play-by-play commentary, often filling in any time when play is not in progress Atthakatha, commentaries on the Pāli Canon in Theravāda Buddhism Criticism, the practice of judging the merits and faults of something or someone Commentary! The Musical, the musical commentary accompanying Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog Commentary or narration, the words in a documentary film Exegesis, a critical explanation or interpretation of a text, especially a religious text (e.g. a Bible commentary) Literary criticism, the study, evaluation, and interpretation of literature Close reading in literary criticism, the careful, sustained interpretation of a brief passage of text Political criticism or political commentary, criticism that is specific of or relevant to politics Public commentary received by governmental and other bodies, e.g. in response to proposals, reports, etc. See also Commentry, a place in central France Comment (disambiguation) List of biblical commentaries Jewish commentaries on the Bible Commentaire, a French quarterly Reaction video, commentaries in video format
Chinese may refer to: Something related to China Chinese people, people identified with China, through nationality, citizenship, and/or ethnicity Han Chinese, East Asian ethnic group native to China. Zhonghua minzu, the supra-ethnic concept of the Chinese nation List of ethnic groups in China, people of various ethnicities in contemporary China Ethnic minorities in China, people of non-Han Chinese ethnicities in modern China Ethnic groups in Chinese history, people of various ethnicities in historical China Nationals of the People's Republic of China Nationals of the Republic of China Overseas Chinese, Chinese people residing outside the territories of mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau, and Taiwan Sinitic languages, the major branch of the Sino-Tibetan language family Chinese language, a group of related languages spoken predominantly in China, sharing a written script (Chinese characters in traditional and simplified forms) Standard Chinese, the standard form of Mandarin Chinese in mainland China, similar to forms of Mandarin Chinese in Taiwan and Singapore Varieties of Chinese, topolects grouped under Chinese languages Written Chinese, writing scripts used for Chinese languages Chinese characters, logograms used for the writing of East Asian languages Chinese cuisine, styles of food originating from China or their derivatives "Chinese", a song about take out meals by Lily Allen from It's Not Me, It's You See also Chinese citizen (disambiguation) Tang Chinese (disambiguation) Language and nationality disambiguation pages
"Riding shotgun" was a phrase used to describe the bodyguard who rides alongside a stagecoach driver, typically armed with a break-action shotgun, called a coach gun, to ward off bandits or hostile Native Americans. In modern use, it refers to the practice of sitting alongside the driver in a moving vehicle. The coining of this phrase dates to 1905 at the latest. Etymology The expression "riding shotgun" is derived from "shotgun messenger", a colloquial term for "express messenger", when stagecoach travel was popular during the American Wild West and the Colonial period in Australia. The person rode alongside the driver. The first known use of the phrase "riding shotgun" was in the 1905 novel The Sunset Trail by Alfred Henry Lewis. It was later used in print and especially film depiction of stagecoaches and wagons in the Old West in danger of being robbed or attacked by bandits. A special armed employee of the express service using the stage for transportation of bullion or cash would sit beside the driver, carrying a short shotgun (or alternatively a rifle), to provide an armed response in case of threat to the cargo, which was usually a strongbox. Absence of an armed person in that position often signaled that the stage was not carrying a strongbox, but only passengers. Historical examples Tombstone, Arizona Territory On the evening of March 15, 1881, a Kinnear & Company stagecoach carrying US$26,000 in silver bullion () was en route from the boom town of Tombstone, Arizona Territory to Benson, Arizona, the nearest freight terminal. Bob Paul, who had run for Pima County Sheriff and was contesting the election he lost due to ballot-stuffing, was temporarily working once again as the Wells Fargo shotgun messenger. He had taken the reins and driver's seat in Contention City because the usual driver, a well-known and popular man named Eli "Budd" Philpot, was ill. Philpot was riding shotgun. Near Drew's Station, just outside Contention City, a man stepped into the road and commanded them to "Hold!" Three cowboys attempted to rob the stage. Paul, in the driver's seat, fired his shotgun and emptied his revolver at the robbers, wounding a cowboy later identified as Bill Leonard in the groin. Philpot, riding shotgun, and passenger Peter Roerig, riding in the rear dickey seat, were both shot and killed. The horses spooked and Paul wasn't able to bring the stage under control for almost a mile, leaving the robbers with nothing. Paul, who normally rode shotgun, later said he thought the first shot killing Philpot had been meant for him. When Wyatt Earp first arrived in Tombstone in December 1879, he initially took a job as a stagecoach shotgun messenger for Wells Fargo, guarding shipments of silver bullion. When Earp was appointed Pima County Deputy Sheriff on July 27, 1881, his brother Morgan Earp took over his job. Historical weapon When Wells, Fargo & Co. began regular stagecoach service from Tipton, Missouri to San Francisco, California in 1858, they issued shotguns to its drivers and guards for defense along the perilous 2,800 mile route. The guard was called a shotgun messenger and they were issued a Coach gun, typically a 10-gauge or 12-gauge, short, double-barreled shotgun. Modern usage More recently, the term has been applied to a game, usually played by groups of friends to determine who rides beside the driver in a car. Typically, this involves claiming the right to ride shotgun by being the first person to call out "shotgun" when everyone is in view of the vehicle; in some regions, calling shotgun too early disqualifies one from the game. The game creates an environment that is fair by forgetting and leaving out most seniority except that parents and significant others automatically get shotgun, and this meanwhile leaves out any conflicts that may have previously occurred when deciding who gets to ride shotgun. See also Coach gun Drive-by shooting Shotgun messenger References American cultural conventions Car games Western (genre) staples and terminology
A country code is a short alphanumeric identification code for countries and dependent areas. Its primary use is in data processing and communications. Several identification systems have been developed. The term country code frequently refers to ISO 3166-1 alpha-2, as well as the telephone country code, which is embodied in the E.164 recommendation by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU). ISO 3166-1 The standard ISO 3166-1 defines short identification codes for most countries and dependent areas: ISO 3166-1 alpha-2: two-letter code ISO 3166-1 alpha-3: three-letter code ISO 3166-1 numeric: three-digit code The two-letter codes are used as the basis for other codes and applications, for example, for ISO 4217 currency codes with deviations, for country code top-level domain names (ccTLDs) on the Internet: list of Internet TLDs. Other applications are defined in ISO 3166-1 alpha-2. ITU country codes In telecommunication, a country code, or international subscriber dialing (ISD) code, is a telephone number prefix used in international direct dialing (IDD) and for destination routing of telephone calls to a country other than the caller's. A country or region with an autonomous telephone administration must apply for membership in the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) to participate in the international public switched telephone network (PSTN). County codes are defined by the ITU-T section of the ITU in standards E.123 and E.164. Country codes constitute the international telephone numbering plan, and are dialed only when calling a telephone number in another country. They are dialed before the national telephone number. International calls require at least one additional prefix to be dialing before the country code, to connect the call to international circuits, the international call prefix. When printing telephone numbers this is indicated by a plus-sign (+) in front of a complete international telephone number, per recommendation E164 by the ITU. Other country codes European Union: Before the 2004 EU enlargement the EU used the UN Road Traffic Conventions license plate codes. Since then, it has used the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code, but with two modifications: EL for Greece (instead of GR) (formerly) UK for United Kingdom (instead of GB) The Nomenclature des unités territoriales statistiques (Nomenclature of territorial units for statistics, NUTS) of the European Union, mostly focusing on subdivisions of the EU member states FIFA (Fédération Internationale de Football Association) assigns a three-letter code (dubbed FIFA Trigramme) to each of its member and non-member countries: List of FIFA country codes Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) 10-4 defined two-letter codes used by the U.S. government and in the CIA World Factbook: list of FIPS country codes. On September 2, 2008, FIPS 10-4 was one of ten standards withdrawn by NIST as a Federal Information Processing Standard. The Bureau of Transportation Statistics, part of the United States Department of Transportation (US DOT), maintains its own list of codes, so-called World Area Codes (WAC), for state and country codes. GOST 7.67: country codes in Cyrillic from the GOST standards committee From the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO): The national prefixes used in aircraft registration numbers Location prefixes in four-character ICAO airport codes International Olympic Committee (IOC) three-letter codes used in sporting events: list of IOC country codes From the International Telecommunication Union (ITU): the E.212 mobile country codes (MCC), for mobile/wireless phone addresses, the first few characters of call signs of radio stations (maritime, aeronautical, amateur radio, broadcasting, and so on) define the country: the ITU prefix, ITU letter codes for member-countries, ITU prefix - amateur and experimental stations - The International Telecommunication Union (ITU) assigns national telecommunication prefixes for amateur and experimental radio use, so that operators can be identified by their country of origin. These prefixes are legally administered by the national entity to which prefix ranges are assigned. Three-digit codes used to identify countries in maritime mobile radio transmissions, known as maritime identification digits License plates for automobiles: Under the 1949 and 1968 United Nations Road Traffic Conventions (distinguishing signs of vehicles in international traffic): List of international license plate codes. Diplomatic license plates in the United States, assigned by the U.S. State Department. North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) used two-letter codes of its own: list of NATO country codes. They were largely borrowed from the FIPS 10-4 codes mentioned below. In 2003 the eighth edition of the Standardisation Agreement (STANAG) adopted the ISO 3166 three-letter codes with one exception (the code for Macedonia). With the ninth edition, NATO is transitioning to four- and six-letter codes based on ISO 3166 with a few exceptions and additions United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) also has its own list of trigram country codes World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO): WIPO ST.3 gives two-letter codes to countries and regional intellectual property organizations World Meteorological Organization (WMO) maintains a list of country codes, used in reporting meteorological observations UIC (the International Union of Railways): UIC Country Codes The developers of ISO 3166 intended that in time it would replace other coding systems. Other codings Country identities may be encoded in the following coding systems: The initial digits of International Standard Book Numbers (ISBN) are group identifiers for countries, areas, or language regions. The first three digits of GS1 Company Prefixes used to identify products, for example, in barcodes, designate (national) numbering agencies. Lists of country codes by country A - B - C - D–E - F - G - H–I - J–K - L - M - N - O–Q - R - S - T - U–Z See also List of ISO 3166 country codes ISO 639 language codes Language code Numbering scheme References External links Comparison of various systems Another comparison: A comparison with ISO, IFS and others with notes United Nations Region Codes Geocodes
Chervil (; Anthriscus cerefolium), sometimes called French parsley or garden chervil (to distinguish it from similar plants also called chervil), is a delicate annual herb related to parsley. It was formerly called myrhis due to its volatile oil with an aroma similar to the resinous substance myrrh. It is commonly used to season mild-flavoured dishes and is a constituent of the French herb mixture . Name The name chervil is from Anglo-Norman, from Latin or , meaning "leaves of joy"; the Latin is formed, as from an Ancient Greek word (). Biology A member of the Apiaceae, chervil is native to the Caucasus but was spread by the Romans through most of Europe, where it is now naturalised. It is also grown frequently in the United States, where it sometimes escapes cultivation. Such escape can be recognized, however, as garden chervil is distinguished from all other Anthriscus species growing in North America (i.e., A. caucalis and A. sylvestris) by its having lanceolate-linear bracteoles and a fruit with a relatively long beak. The plants grow to , with tripinnate leaves that may be curly. The small white flowers form small umbels, across. The fruit is about 1 cm long, oblong-ovoid with a slender, ridged beak. Uses and impact Culinary arts Chervil is used, particularly in France, to season poultry, seafood, young spring vegetables (such as carrots), soups, and sauces. More delicate than parsley, it has a faint taste of liquorice or aniseed. Chervil is one of the four traditional French , along with tarragon, chives, and parsley, which are essential to French cooking. Unlike the more pungent, robust herbs such as thyme and rosemary, which can take prolonged cooking, the are added at the last minute, to salads, omelettes, and soups. Chemistry Essential oil obtained via water distillation of wild Turkish Anthriscus cerefolium was analyzed by gas chromatography - mass spectrometry identifying 4 compounds: methyl chavicol (83.10%), 1-allyl-2,4-dimethoxybenzene (15.15%), undecane (1.75%) and β-pinene (<0.01%). Horticulture According to some, slugs are attracted to chervil and the plant is sometimes used to bait them. Health Chervil has had various uses in folk medicine. It was claimed to be useful as a digestive aid, for lowering high blood pressure, and, infused with vinegar, for curing hiccups. Besides its digestive properties, it is used as a mild stimulant. Chervil has also been implicated in "strimmer dermatitis", another name for phytophotodermatitis, due to spray from weed trimmers and similar forms of contact. Other plants in the family Apiaceae can have similar effects. Cultivation Transplanting chervil can be difficult, due to the long taproot. It prefers a cool and moist location; otherwise, it rapidly goes to seed (also known as bolting). It is usually grown as a cool-season crop, like lettuce, and should be planted in early spring and late fall or in a winter greenhouse. Regular harvesting of leaves also helps to prevent bolting. If plants bolt despite precautions, the plant can be periodically re-sown throughout the growing season, thus producing fresh plants as older plants bolt and go out of production. Chervil grows to a height of , and a width of . References Further reading Apioideae Edible Apiaceae Herbs Medicinal plants of Asia Medicinal plants of Europe Root vegetables
The critical philosophy () movement, attributed to Immanuel Kant (1724–1804), sees the primary task of philosophy as criticism rather than justification of knowledge. Criticism, for Kant, meant judging as to the possibilities of knowledge before advancing to knowledge itself (from the Greek kritike (techne), or "art of judgment"). The basic task of philosophers, according to this view, is not to establish and demonstrate theories about reality, but rather to subject all theories—including those about philosophy itself—to critical review, and measure their validity by how well they withstand criticism. "Critical philosophy" is also used as another name for Kant's philosophy itself. Kant said that philosophy's proper inquiry is not about what is out there in reality, but rather about the character and foundations of experience itself. We must first judge how human reason works, and within what limits, so that we can afterwards correctly apply it to sense experience and determine whether it can be applied at all to metaphysical objects. The principal three sources on which the critical philosophy is based are the three critiques, namely Critique of Pure Reason, Critique of Practical Reason and Critique of Judgement, published between 1781 and 1790 and mostly concerned, respectively, with metaphysics, ethics and aesthetics. See also Critical idealism Critical thinking Charles Bernard Renouvier Léon Brunschvicg References Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy: Immanuel Kant Kantianism
Commelinales is an order of flowering plants. It comprises five families: Commelinaceae, Haemodoraceae, Hanguanaceae, Philydraceae, and Pontederiaceae. All the families combined contain over 885 species in about 70 genera; the majority of species are in the Commelinaceae. Plants in the order share a number of synapomorphies that tie them together, such as a lack of mycorrhizal associations and tapetal raphides. Estimates differ as to when the Commelinales evolved, but most suggest an origin and diversification sometime during the mid- to late Cretaceous. Depending on the methods used, studies suggest a range of origin between 123 and 73 million years, with diversification occurring within the group 110 to 66 million years ago. The order's closest relatives are in the Zingiberales, which includes ginger, bananas, cardamom, and others. Taxonomy According to the most recent classification scheme, the APG IV of 2016, the order includes five families: Commelinaceae Haemodoraceae Hanguanaceae Philydraceae Pontederiaceae This is unchanged from the APG III of 2009 and the APG II of 2003, but different from the older APG system of 1998, which did not include Hanguanaceae. Previous classification systems The older Cronquist system of 1981, which was based purely on morphological data, placed the order in subclass Commelinidae of class Liliopsida and included the families Commelinaceae, Mayacaceae, Rapateaceae and Xyridaceae. These families are now known to be only distantly related. In the classification system of Dahlgren the Commelinales were one of four orders in the superorder Commeliniflorae (also called Commelinanae), and contained five families, of which only Commelinaceae has been retained by the Angiosperm Phylogeny Group. References Angiosperm orders Extant Campanian first appearances
The Cucurbitales are an order of flowering plants, included in the rosid group of dicotyledons. This order mostly belongs to tropical areas, with limited presence in subtropical and temperate regions. The order includes shrubs and trees, together with many herbs and climbers. One major characteristic of the Cucurbitales is the presence of unisexual flowers, mostly pentacyclic, with thick pointed petals (whenever present). The pollination is usually performed by insects, but wind pollination is also present (in Coriariaceae and Datiscaceae). The order consists of roughly 2600 species in eight families. The largest families are Begoniaceae (begonia family) with around 1500 species and Cucurbitaceae (gourd family) with around 900 species. These two families include the only economically important plants. Specifically, the Cucurbitaceae (gourd family) include some food species, such as squash, pumpkin (both from Cucurbita), watermelon (Citrullus vulgaris), and cucumber and melons (Cucumis). The Begoniaceae are known for their horticultural species, of which there are over 130 with many more varieties. Overview The Cucurbitales are an order of plants with a cosmopolitan distribution, particularly diverse in the tropics. Most are herbs, climber herbs, woody lianas or shrubs but some genera include canopy-forming evergreen lauroid trees. Members of the Cucurbitales form an important component of low to montane tropical forest with greater representation in terms of the number of species. Although not known with certainty the total number of species in the order, conservative estimates indicate about 2600 species worldwide, distributed in 109 genera. Compared to other flowering plant orders, the taxonomy is poorly understood due to their great diversity, difficulty in identification, and limited study. The order Cucurbitales in the eurosid I clade comprises almost 2600 species in 109 or 110 genera in eight families, tropical and temperate, of very different sizes, morphology, and ecology. It is a case of divergent evolution. In contrast, there is convergent evolution with other groups not related due to ecological or physical drivers toward a similar solution, including analogous structures. Some species are trees that have similar foliage to the true laurels due to convergent evolution. The patterns of speciation in the Cucurbitales are diversified in a high number of species. They have a pantropical distribution with centers of diversity in Africa, South America, and Southeast Asia. They most likely originated in West Gondwana 67–107 million years ago, so the oldest split could relate to the break-up of Gondwana in the middle Eocene to late Oligocene, 45–24 million years ago. The group reached their current distribution by multiple intercontinental dispersal events. One factor was product of aridification, other groups responded to favorable climatic periods and expanded across the available habitat, occurring as opportunistic species across wide distribution; other groups diverged over long periods within isolated areas. The Cucurbitales comprise the families: Apodanthaceae, Anisophylleaceae, Begoniaceae, Coriariaceae, Corynocarpaceae, Cucurbitaceae, Tetramelaceae, and Datiscaceae. Some of the synapomorphies of the order are: leaves in spiral with secondary veins palmated, calyx or perianth valvate, and the elevated stomatal calyx/perianth bearing separate styles. The two whorls are similar in texture. Tetrameles nudiflora is a tree of immense proportions of height and width; Tetramelaceae, Anisophylleaceae, and Corynocarpaceae are tall canopy trees in temperate and tropical forests. The genus Dendrosicyos, with the only species being the cucumber tree, is adapted to the arid semidesert island of Socotra. Deciduous perennial Cucurbitales lose all of their leaves for part of the year depending on variations in rainfall. The leaf loss coincides with the dry season in tropical, subtropical and arid regions. In temperate or polar climates, the dry season is due to the inability of the plant to absorb water available in the form of ice. Apodanthaceae are obligatory endoparasites that only emerge once a year in the form of small flowers that develop into small berries, however taxonomists have not agreed on the exact placement of this family within the Cucurbitales. Over half of the known members of this order belong to the greatly diverse begonia family Begoniaceae, with around 1500 species in two genera. Before modern DNA-molecular classifications, some Cucurbitales species were assigned to orders as diverse as Ranunculales, Malpighiales, Violales, and Rafflesiales. Early molecular studies revealed several surprises, such as the nonmonophyly of the traditional Datiscaceae, including Tetrameles and Octomeles, but the exact relationships among the families remain unclear. The lack of knowledge about the order in general is due to many species being found in countries with limited economic means or unstable political environments, factors unsuitable for plant collection and detailed study. Thus the vast majority of species remain poorly determined, and a future increase in the number of species is expected. Classification Under the Cronquist system, the families Begoniaceae, Cucurbitaceae, and Datiscaceae were placed in the order Violales, within the subclass Dilleniidae, with the Tetramelaceae subsumed into the Datiscaceae. Corynocarpaceae was placed in order Celastrales, and Anisophylleaceae in order Rosales, both under subclass Rosidae. Coriariaceae was placed in Ranunculaceae, subclass Magnoliidae. Apodanthaceae was not recognised as a family, its genera being assigned to another parasitic plant family, the Rafflesiaceae. The present classification is due to APG III (2009). Systematics Modern molecular phylogenetics suggest the following relationships: References Further reading External links Extant Albian first appearances Angiosperm orders
Cross ownership is a method of reinforcing business relationships by owning stock in the companies with which a given company does business. Heavy cross ownership is referred to as circular ownership. In the US, "cross ownership" also refers to a type of investment in different mass-media properties in one market. Cross ownership of stock Countries noted to have high levels of cross ownership include: Japan Germany Positives of cross ownership: Closely ties each business to the economic destiny of its business partners Promotes a slow rate of economic change Cross ownership of shares is criticized for: Stagnating the economy Wasting capital that could be used to improve productivity Expanding economic downturns by preventing reallocation of capital Lessening control of shareholders over corporate leadership. A major factor in perpetuating cross ownership of shares is a high capital gains tax rate. A company has less incentive to sell cross owned shares if taxes are high because of the immediate reduction in the value of the assets. For example, a company owns $1000 of stock in another company that was originally purchased for $200. If the capital gains tax rate is 25% (like in Germany), the profit of $800 would be taxed for $200, causing the company to take a $200 loss on the sale. Long term cross ownership of shares combined with a high capital tax rate greatly increases periods of asset deflation both in time and in severity. Media cross ownership Cross ownership also refers to a type of media ownership in which one type of communications (say a newspaper) owns or is the sister company of another type of medium (such as a radio or TV station). One example is The New York Timess former ownership of WQXR Radio and the Chicago Tribune'''s similar relationship with WGN Radio (WGN-AM) and Television (WGN-TV). The Federal Communications Commission generally does not allow cross ownership, to keep from one license holder having too much local media ownership, unless the license holder obtains a waiver, such as News Corporation and the Tribune Company have in New York. The mid-1970s cross-ownership guidelines grandfathered already-existing cross ownerships, such as Tribune-WGN, New York Times-WQXR and the New York Daily News'' ownership of WPIX Television and Radio. References Business ownership Strategic management
The Cambodian government has diplomatic relations with most countries, including the United States, the United Kingdom, and France, as well as all of its Asian neighbors, including China, India, Vietnam, Laos, South Korea, and Thailand. The government is a member of most major international organizations, including the United Nations and its specialized agencies such as the World Bank and International Monetary Fund. The government is an Asian Development Bank (ADB) member, a member of ASEAN, and of the WTO. In 2005 Cambodia attended the inaugural East Asia Summit. The government is also a member of the Pacific Alliance (as observer) and Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (as dialogue partner). International disputes Cambodia is involved in a dispute regarding offshore islands and sections of the boundary with Vietnam. In addition, the maritime boundary Cambodia has with Vietnam is undefined. Parts of Cambodia's border with Thailand are indefinite, and the maritime boundary with Thailand is not clearly defined. Illicit drugs Cambodia is a transshipment site for Golden Triangle heroin, and possibly a site of money laundering. There is corruption related to narcotics in parts of the government, military and police. Cambodia is also a possible site of small-scale opium, heroin, and amphetamine production. The country is a large producer of cannabis for the international market. International organization participation ACCT, AsDB, ASEAN, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), International Monetary Fund, Interpol, IOC, ISO (subscriber), ITU, NAM, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WB, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, WToO, WTrO (applicant) Diplomatic relations List of countries with which Cambodia maintains diplomatic relations with: Bilateral relations Africa Americas Asia Europe Oceania Country with no relations There are 17 countries that haven't establish any diplomatic relations with Cambodia: See also List of diplomatic missions in Cambodia List of diplomatic missions of Cambodia References Further reading Deth, Sok Udom, and Serkan Bulut, eds. Cambodia's Foreign Relations in Regional and Global Contexts (Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung, 2017; comprehensive coverage) full book online free. Path Kosal, "Introduction: Cambodia's Political History and Foreign Relations, 1945-1998" pp 1–26 Acharya, Amitav. The Making of Southeast Asia: International Relations of A Region (Cornell UP, 2012) Chandler, David. The Tragedy of Cambodian History: Politics, War, and Revolution since 1945 (Yale UP, 1991) Ciorciari, John D. "Cambodia in 2019: Backing Further into a Corner." Asian Survey 60.1 (2020): 125–131. online Clymer, Kenton. Troubled Relations: The United States and Cambodia since 1870 (Northern Illinois UP, 2007). Leighton, Marian Kirsch. "Perspectives on the Vietnam-Cambodia border conflict." Asian Survey 18.5 (1978): 448–457. online Leng, Thearith. "2016: A Promising Year for Cambodia?." Southeast Asian Affairs (2017): 133–146. online Morris, Stephen J. Why Vietnam invaded Cambodia: Political culture and the causes of war (Stanford University Press, 1999). Peou, Sorpong. "Cambodia in 2018: a year of setbacks and successes." Southeast Asian Affairs 2019.1 (2019): 104–119. online Richardson, Sophie. China, Cambodia and the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence (Columbia UP, 2010) Smith, Roger. Cambodia's Foreign Policy (Cornell UP, 1965). Un, Kheang, and Jing Jing Luo. "Cambodia in 2019: Entrenching One-Party Rule and Asserting National Sovereignty in the Era of Shifting Global Geopolitics." Southeast Asian Affairs 2020.1 (2020): 117–134. online Westad, Odd Arne, and Sophie Quinn-Judge, eds. The third Indochina war: conflict between China, Vietnam and Cambodia, 1972-79 (Routledge, 2006). Womack, Brantly. "Asymmetry and systemic misperception: China, Vietnam and Cambodia during the 1970s." Journal of Strategic Studies 26.2 (2003): 92-119 online. External links Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation US Department of State: Foreign relations with Southeast Asia 1961–63 Foreign relations between Cambodia and Germany Japan-Cambodia Relations List of foreign embassies in Cambodia Foreign relations between Cambodia and Australia AsiaSociety: essays relating to the development of Cambodia
Capricorn (pl. capricorni or capricorns) may refer to: Places Capricorn and Bunker Group, islands of the southern Great Barrier Reef, Australia Capricorn District Municipality, Limpopo province, South Africa Animals Capricorn, an animal from the ibex family, particularly the Alpine ibex Capricornis, a genus of goat-like or antelope-like animals Astronomy and astrology Capricornus, one of the constellations of the zodiac Capricorn (astrology) Arts, entertainment, and media Fictional characters Capricorn (comics), several Marvel Comics characters Capricorn (Inkworld), Inkheart character Music Groups and labels Capricorn Records, an American record label active 1969–1979 Capricorn (ensemble), a British chamber ensemble active 1973–2000 Albums Capricorn (Jay Chou album), 2008 Capricorn (Trevor Powers album), 2020 Capricorn (Mike Tramp album), 1997 "Capricorn (A Brand New Name)", a 2002 single by 30 Seconds to Mars from their self-titled album Songs "Capricorn", a song by IQ from their 1997 concept album Subterranea "Capricorn", a song by Barclay James Harvest from the album Eyes of the Universe "Capricorn", a song by Motörhead from the album Overkill Other uses in arts, entertainment, and media Capricorn, a 1988 manga series created by Johji Manabe Capricorn One, a 1977 thriller Brands and enterprises Capricorn (microprocessor), a family of microprocessors used in the HP series 80 scientific microcomputers Capricorn, one of the names for the Virgin Atlantic GlobalFlyer Capricorn Investment Holdings, an umbrella for the Capricorn group of companies Other uses Capricorn, a ship that on January 28, 1980 collided with and sank the USCGC Blackthorn (WLB-391) Capricorn Africa Society, a pressure group in British African colonies See also Capricornia (disambiguation) Tropic of Capricorn (disambiguation)
Capricornus is one of the constellations of the zodiac. Its name is Latin for "horned goat" or "goat horn" or "having horns like a goat's", and it is commonly represented in the form of a sea goat: a mythical creature that is half goat, half fish. Capricornus is one of the 88 modern constellations, and was also one of the 48 constellations listed by the 2nd century astronomer Claudius Ptolemy. Its old astronomical symbol is (♑︎). Under its modern boundaries it is bordered by Aquila, Sagittarius, Microscopium, Piscis Austrinus, and Aquarius. The constellation is located in an area of sky called the Sea or the Water, consisting of many water-related constellations such as Aquarius, Pisces and Eridanus. It is the smallest constellation in the zodiac. Notable features Stars Capricornus is a faint constellation, with only one star above magnitude 3; its alpha star has a magnitude of only 3.6. The brightest star in Capricornus is δ Capricorni, also called Deneb Algedi, with a magnitude of 2.9, located 39 light-years from Earth. Like several other stars such as Denebola and Deneb, it is named for the Arabic word for "tail" (deneb); its traditional name means "the tail of the goat". Deneb Algedi is a Beta Lyrae variable star (a type of eclipsing binary). It ranges by about 0.2 magnitudes with a period of 24.5 hours. The other bright stars in Capricornus range in magnitude from 3.1 to 5.1. α Capricorni is a multiple star. The primary (α2 Cap), 109 light-years from Earth, is a yellow-hued giant star of magnitude 3.6; the secondary (α1 Cap), 690 light-years from Earth, is a yellow-hued supergiant star of magnitude 4.3. The two stars are distinguishable by the naked eye, and both are themselves multiple stars. α1 Capricorni is accompanied by a star of magnitude 9.2; α2 Capricornus is accompanied by a star of magnitude 11.0; this faint star is itself a binary star with two components of magnitude 11. Also called Algedi or Giedi, the traditional names of α Capricorni come from the Arabic word for "the kid", which references the constellation's mythology. β Capricorni is a double star also known as Dabih. It is a yellow-hued giant star of magnitude 3.1, 340 light-years from Earth. The secondary is a blue-white hued star of magnitude 6.1. The two stars are distinguishable in binoculars. β Capricorni's traditional name comes from the Arabic phrase for "the lucky stars of the slaughterer," a reference to ritual sacrifices performed by ancient Arabs at the heliacal rising of Capricornus. Another star visible to the naked eye is γ Capricorni, sometimes called Nashira ("bringing good tidings"); it is a white-hued giant star of magnitude 3.7, 139 light-years from Earth. π Capricorni is a double star with a blue-white hued primary of magnitude 5.1 and a white-hued secondary of magnitude 8.3. It is 670 light-years from Earth and the components are distinguishable in a small telescope. Deep-sky objects Several galaxies and star clusters are contained within Capricornus. Messier 30 is a globular cluster located 1 degree south of the galaxy group that contains NGC 7103. The constellation also harbors the wide spiral galaxy NGC 6907. Messier 30 (NGC 7099) is a centrally-condensed globular cluster of magnitude 7.5 . At a distance of 30,000 light-years, it has chains of stars extending to the north that are resolvable in small amateur telescopes. One galaxy group located in Capricornus is HCG 87, a group of at least three galaxies located 400 million light-years from Earth (redshift 0.0296). It contains a large elliptical galaxy, a face-on spiral galaxy, and an edge-on spiral galaxy. The face-on spiral galaxy is experiencing abnormally high rates of star formation, indicating that it is interacting with one or both members of the group. Furthermore, the large elliptical galaxy and the edge-on spiral galaxy, both of which have active nuclei, are connected by a stream of stars and dust, indicating that they too are interacting. Astronomers predict that the three galaxies may merge millions of years in the future to form a giant elliptical galaxy. History The constellation was first attested in depictions on a cylinder-seal from around the 21st century BCE, it was explicitly recorded in the Babylonian star catalogues before 1000 BCE. In the Early Bronze Age the winter solstice occurred in the constellation, but due to the precession of the equinoxes, the December solstice now takes place in the constellation Sagittarius. The Sun is now in the constellation Capricorn (as distinct from the astrological sign) from late January through mid-February. Although the solstice during the northern hemisphere's winter no longer takes place while the sun is in the constellation Capricornus, as it did until 130 BCE, the astrological sign called Capricorn is still used to denote the position of the solstice, and the latitude of the sun's most southerly position continues to be called the Tropic of Capricorn, a term which also applies to the line on the Earth at which the sun is directly overhead at local noon on the day of the December solstice. The planet Neptune was discovered by German astronomer Johann Galle, near Deneb Algedi (δ Capricorni) on 23 September 1846, as Capricornus can be seen best from Europe at 4:00 in September (although, by modern constellation boundaries established in the early 20th century CE, Neptune lay within the confines of Aquarius at the time of its discovery). Mythology Despite its faintness, the constellation Capricornus has one of the oldest mythological associations, having been consistently represented as a hybrid of a goat and a fish since the Middle Bronze Age, when the Babylonians used "The Goat-Fish" as a symbol of their god Ea. In Greek mythology, the constellation is sometimes identified as Amalthea, the goat that suckled the infant Zeus after his mother, Rhea, saved him from being devoured by his father, Cronos. Amalthea's broken horn was transformed into the cornucopia or "horn of plenty". Capricornus is also sometimes identified as Pan, the god with a goat's horns and legs, who saved himself from the monster Typhon by giving himself a fish's tail and diving into a river. Visualizations Capricornus's brighter stars are found on a triangle whose vertices are α2 Capricorni (Giedi), δ Capricorni (Deneb Algiedi), and ω Capricorni. Ptolemy's method of connecting the stars of Capricornus has been influential. Capricornus is usually drawn as a goat with the tail of a fish. H. A. Rey has suggested an alternative visualization, which graphically shows a goat. The goat's head is formed by the triangle of stars ι Cap, θ Cap, and ζ Cap. The goat's horn sticks out with stars γ Cap and δ Cap. Star δ Cap, at the tip of the horn, is of the third magnitude. The goat's tail consists of stars β Cap and α2 Cap: star β Cap being of the third magnitude. The goat's hind foot consists of stars ψ Cap and ω Cap. Both of these stars are of the fourth magnitude. Equivalents In Chinese astronomy, constellation Capricornus lies in The Black Tortoise of the North (). The Nakh peoples called this constellation Roofing Towers (). In the Society Islands, the figure of Capricornus was called Rua-o-Mere, "Cavern of parental yearnings". In Indian astronomy and Indian astrology, it is called Makara, the crocodile. See also Capricornus in Chinese astronomy Hippocampus (mythology), the mythological sea horse IC 1337, galaxy Citations Citations References External links The Deep Photographic Guide to the Constellations: Capricornus Ian Ridpath's Star Tales – Capricornus Warburg Institute Iconographic Database (medieval and early modern images of Capricornus) Constellations Southern constellations Constellations listed by Ptolemy
At , Cameroon is the world's 53rd largest country. It is slightly larger than the nation of Sweden and the US state of California. It is comparable in size to Papua New Guinea. Cameroon's landmass is , with of water. The country is located in Central and West Africa, bordering the Bight of Biafra, between Equatorial Guinea and Nigeria. Cameroon is sometimes described as "Africa in miniature" because it exhibits all the major climates and vegetation of the continent: mountains, desert, rain forest, savanna grassland, and ocean coastland. Cameroon can be divided into five geographic zones. These are distinguished by dominant physical, climatic, and vegetative features. Natural regions Cameroon's coastal plain extends inland from the Gulf of Guinea (part of the Atlantic Ocean) to the edge of a plateau. In the former western state, however, the mass of Mount Cameroon reaches almost to the sea. The plain is densely forested including areas of Central African mangroves especially around Douala and in the estuary of the Cross River on the border with Nigeria. A recent global remote sensing analysis suggested that there were 643km² of tidal flats in Cameroon, making it the 39th ranked country in terms of tidal flat area. The low South Cameroon Plateau, rising from the coastal plain and dominated by tropical rain forest, has an average elevation of . It is less humid than the coast. In western Cameroon is an irregular chain of mountains, hills, and plateaus that extends from Mount Cameroon almost to Lake Chad at the northern tip of the country. This region includes the Bamenda, Bamiléké, and Mambilla highlands. It also contains some of the country's most fertile soils, notably around volcanic Mt. Cameroon. This area of tropical forest has been categorised by the World Wildlife Fund as the Cameroonian Highlands forests ecoregion with Mount Cameroon considered separately because as an active volcano it has a distinct environment from the other mountains. From the forested southern plateau the land rises northward to the grassy, rugged Adamaoua (Adamawa) highlands. Stretching across Cameroon from the western mountain area, the Adamaoua forms a barrier between the north and south. Its average elevation is . The southern savanna plain extends from the edge of the Adamaoua to Lake Chad. Its characteristic vegetation is scrub and grass. This is region of sparse rainfall and high median temperatures has been included as part of the East Sudanian savanna ecoregion. Climate The climate varies with terrain, from tropical along the coast to semiarid and hot in the north. Exceedingly hot and humid, the coastal belt includes some of the wettest places on earth. For example, Debundscha, at the base of Mt. Cameroon, has an average annual rainfall of . Biodiversity The wide diversity of climates and natural regions of Cameroon, as coastline, mountains, savanna, deserts, and tropical forests, allows that the country counts with rich biodiversity. Twenty-two million hectares from the Congo Basin forest ecosystem are located in Cameroon, where 9,000 plant species, 900 bird species, and 320 mammals species live, included 156 endemic plants, eight endemic birds, and 14 endemic mammals. The border with Nigeria has one of the highest concentration of biodiversity in Africa. As part of the conservation efforts to protect threatened natural resources, Cameroon has established protected areas since 1932, included national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, faunal reserves, and one flora sanctuary. Cameroon had a 2018 Forest Landscape Integrity Index mean score of 8.00/10, ranking it 29th globally out of 172 countries. Rivers The country has four patterns of drainage. In the south, the principal rivers flow southwestward or westward directly to the Gulf of Guinea – the Wouri, and lesser Dibamba, Bimbia and Mungo to the Cameroon estuary near Douala; Sanaga, Nyong, and Ntem further south along the coast; Akwayafe and Manyu (which joins Nigerian Cross), and the lesser Ndian and Meme north of the coast. The Dja and Kadeï, however, drain southeastward into the Congo River. In northern Cameroon, the Benoué River (Benue) runs north and west, eventually into the Niger, while the Logone River flows northward into Lake Chad. Some of the borders of Cameron follow rivers, including the Aïna, Akwayafe, and Ntem or Campo. Data Location: Central Africa, bordering the Bight of Biafra, between Equatorial Guinea and Nigeria Geographic coordinates: Continent: Africa Area: total: land: water: Area – comparative: slightly larger than Sweden Land boundaries: total: 5,018 km border countries: Central African Republic 901 km, Chad 1,116 km, Republic of the Congo 494 km, Equatorial Guinea 183 km, Gabon 349 km, Nigeria 1,975 km Coastline: 402 km Maritime claims: territorial sea: Terrain: diverse, with coastal plain in southwest, dissected plateau in center, mountains in west, plains in north Elevation extremes: lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 m highest point: Fako (on. Mt. Cameroon) 4,095 m Natural resources: petroleum, bauxite, iron ore, timber, hydropower Land use: arable land: 13.12% permanent crops: 3.28% other: 83.61% (2012) Irrigated land: 256.5 km2 (2003) Total renewable water resources: 285.5 km3 (2011) Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural): total: 0.97 km3/yr (23%/10%/68%) per capita: 58.9 m3/yr (2005) Natural hazards: Recent limnic eruptions with release of carbon dioxide: from Lake Monoun, 15 August 1984, killing 37 from Lake Nyos, 21 August 1986, killing as many as 1,800 Environment – current issues: water-borne diseases are prevalent; deforestation; overgrazing; desertification; poaching; overfishing Environment – international agreements: party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling signed, but not ratified: Nuclear Test Ban Geography – note: sometimes referred to as 'the hinge of Africa;' throughout the country there are areas of thermal springs and indications of current or prior volcanic activity; Mount Cameroon, the highest mountain in Sub-Saharan west Africa, is an active volcano Extreme points This is a list of the extreme points of Cameroon, the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location. Northernmost point – unnamed peninsula jutting into Lake Chad, Far North Region Easternmost point – unnamed location on the border with the Republic of Congo in the Sangha River opposite the Congolese town of Bomassa, East Region Southernmost point – unnamed headland at the confluence on the Sangha River and the Ngoko River immediately north of the Congolese town of Ouesso, East Region Westernmost point – unnamed point on Akwabana Island, Southwest Region Gallery See also Cameroon Geology of Cameroon List of volcanoes in Cameroon Notes References
The politics of Cameroon takes place in a framework of a unitary presidential republic, whereby the President of Cameroon is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. A prime ministerial position exists and is nominally head of government, implying a semi-presidential system, although de facto only serves to assist the president. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the National Assembly of Cameroon. Political background The government adopted legislation in 1997 to authorize the formation of multiple political parties and ease restrictions on forming civil associations and private newspapers. Cameroon's first multiparty legislative and presidential elections were held in 1992 followed by municipal elections in 1996 and another round of legislative and presidential elections in 1997. Because the government refused to consider opposition demands for an independent election commission, the three major opposition parties boycotted the October 1997 presidential election, which Biya easily won. The leader of one of the opposition parties, Bello Bouba Maigari of the NUDP, subsequently joined the government. Cameroon has a number of independent newspapers. Censorship was abolished in 1996, but the government sometimes seizes or suspends newspapers and occasionally arrests journalists. Although a 1990 law authorizes private radio and television stations, the government has not granted any licenses as of March 1998. The Cameroonian Government's human rights record has been improving over the years but remains flawed. There continue to be reported abuses, including beatings of detainees, arbitrary arrests, and illegal searches. The judiciary is frequently corrupt, inefficient, and subject to political influence. Worthy of note is the fact that Cameroon is the only country in which two Constitutions are applicable side by side. For example, the 1972 Constitution designates the Prime Minister as constitutional successor of the Head of State in case of incapacity, death, resignation or unaccountable absence of the incumbent. Contrarily, the 1996 Constitutional Reform designates the President of the Senate as constitutional successor; but the Senate (provided for by 1996 Reform) does not exist. Apart from increasing the presidential mandate from 5 years to 7 years, very few amendments of the 1996 Constitutional Reform have been applied. Executive branch |President |Paul Biya |Cameroon People's Democratic Movement |6 November 1982 |- |Prime Minister |Joseph Dion Ngute |Cameroon People's Democratic Movement |4 January 2019 |} The 1972 constitution of the Republic of Cameroon as modified by 1996 reforms provides for a strong central government dominated by the executive. The president is empowered to name and dismiss cabinet members (regardless of parliamentary representation), judges, generals, provincial governors, prefects, sub-prefects, and heads of Cameroon's parastatal (about 100 state-controlled) firms, obligate or disburse expenditures, approve or veto regulations, declare states of emergency, and appropriate and spend profits of parastatal firms. The president is not required to consult the National Assembly. In 2008, a constitutional amendment was passed that eliminated term limits for president. The judiciary is subordinate to the executive branch's Ministry of Justice. The Supreme court may review the constitutionality of a law only at the president's request. All local government officials are employees of the central government's Ministry of Territorial Administration, from which local governments also get most of their budgets. While the president, the minister of justice, and the president's judicial advisers (the Supreme Court) top the judicial hierarchy, traditional rulers, courts, and councils also exercise functions of government. Traditional courts still play a major role in domestic, property, and probate law. Tribal laws and customs are honored in the formal court system when not in conflict with national law. Traditional rulers receive stipends from the national government. Legislative branch The 180-member National Assembly meets in ordinary session three times a year (March/April, June/July, and November/December), and has seldom, until recently, made major changes in legislation proposed by the executive. Laws are adopted by majority vote of members present or, if the president demands a second reading, of a total membership. Following government pledges to reform the strongly centralized 1972 constitution, the National Assembly adopted a number of amendments in December 1995 which were promulgated in January 1996. The amendments call for the establishment of a 100-member senate as part of a bicameral legislature, the creation of regional councils, and the fixing of the presidential term to 7 years, renewable once. One-third of senators are to be appointed by the President, and the remaining two-thirds are to be chosen by indirect elections. The government has established the Senate in 2013. Political parties and elections Judicial branch The judiciary is subordinate to the executive branch's Ministry of Justice. The Supreme Court may review the constitutionality of a law only at the president's request. The role of women In an article on the construction of a ‘model Cameroonian woman’ in the Cameroonian parliament, Lilian Atanga, examines arguments used to perpetuate a popular ideal and discourses which "sustain and maintain the status quo (e.g. of women as domestic or women as cooks)". International organization participation Cameroon is member of: ACCT, ACP, AfDB, BDEAC, C, CEEAC, ECA, FAO, FZ, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ITU, ITUC, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW, PCA, UDEAC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNITAR, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO See also Cameroon public administration structure List of governments of Cameroon References
The economy of Cameroon was one of the most prosperous in Africa for a quarter of a century after independence. The drop in commodity prices for its principal exports – petroleum, cocoa, coffee, and cotton – in the mid-1980s, combined with an overvalued currency and economic mismanagement, led to a decade-long recession. Real per capita GDP fell by more than 60% from 1986 to 1994. The current account and fiscal deficits widened, and foreign debt grew. Yet because of its oil reserves and favorable agricultural conditions, Cameroon still has one of the best-endowed primary commodity economies in sub-Saharan Africa. Agriculture In 2018, Cameroon produced: 5million tons of cassava (13th largest producer in the world); 3.9million tonnes of plantain (3rd largest producer in the world, only behind Congo and Ghana); 2.6million tons of palm oil (7th largest producer in the world); 2.3million tons of maize; 1.9million tons of taro (3rd largest producer in the world, second only to Nigeria and China); 1.4million tons of sorghum; 1.2million tons of banana; 1.2million tons of sugarcane; 1million tons of tomato (19th largest producer in the world); 674,000 tonnes of yam (7th largest producer in the world); 594,000 tons of peanut; 410,000 tons of sweet potato; 402,000 tons of beans; 332,000 tons of rice; 310,000 tons of pineapple; 307,000 tons of cocoa (5th largest producer in the world, after Ivory Coast, Ghana, Indonesia and Nigeria); 302,000 tons of potato; 301,000 tons of onion; 249,000 tons of cotton. In addition to smaller productions of other agricultural products, such as coffee (33,000 tons) and natural rubber (55,000 tons). Finance and banking Cameroon's financial system is the largest in the CEMAC region. Access to financial services is limited, particularly for SMEs. Aside from a traditional tendency for banks to prefer dealing with large, established companies, determining factors are also found in interest rates for loans to SMEs being capped at 15 percent and being heavily taxed. As of 2006, bank loans to SMEs hardly reached 15 percent of total outstanding loans (Molua, 2002). Less than 5 percent of Cameroonians have access to a bank account. While the microfinance sector is consequently becoming increasingly important, its development is hampered by a loose regulatory and supervisory framework for microfinance institutions (MFIs). The banking sector is highly concentrated and dominated by foreign commercial banks. 6 out of the 11 largest commercial banks are foreign-owned, and the three largest banks hold more than 50 percent of total financial system assets. While foreign banks generally display good solvency ratios, small domestic banks are in a much weaker position. Their capitalization is well below the average of banks in the CEMAC region and their profits are close to 2 percent, compared to 20 percent for foreign banks in the country. This is partially explained by the high levels of non-performing loans, which reached 12 percent in 2007, leading to most banks holding large amounts of excess reserves as a percentage of deposits and large levels of unutilized liquidity. In 2018, Cameroon's financial system is being requested by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to increase its tax base to cover the losses from the North-West and South-West Cameroon's regions instabilities, the loss of oil revenue, the failure to deliver on port facilities, and the decline in oil production from mature oil fields. Macro-economic trend Cameroon became an oil-producing country in 1977. Claiming to want to make reserves for difficult times, the authorities manage "off-budget" oil revenues in total opacity (the funds are placed in Paris, Switzerland and New York accounts). Several billion dollars are thus diverted to the benefit of oil companies and regime officials. The influence of France and its 9,000 nationals in Cameroon remains considerable. African Affairs magazine noted in the early 1980s that they "continue to dominate almost all key sectors of the economy, much as they did before independence. French nationals control 55% of the modern sector of the Cameroonian economy and their control over the banking system is total. Recent signs, however, are encouraging. As of March 1998, Cameroon's fifth IMF program – a 3-year enhanced structural adjustment program approved in August 1997 – is on track. Cameroon has rescheduled its Paris Club debt at favorable terms. GDP has grown by about 5% a year beginning in 1995. There is cautious optimism that Cameroon is emerging from its long period of economic hardship. The Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) signed recently by the IMF and Government of Cameroon calls for greater macroeconomic planning and financial accountability; privatization of most of Cameroon's nearly 100 remaining non-financial parastatal enterprises; elimination of state marketing board monopolies on the export of cocoa, certain coffees, and cotton; privatization and price competition in the banking sector; implementation of the 1992 labor code; a vastly improved judicial system; and political liberalization to boost investment. France is Cameroon's main trading partner and source of private investment and foreign aid. Cameroon has an investment guaranty agreement and a bilateral accord with the United States. USA investment in Cameroon is about $1 million, most of it in the oil sector. Inflation has been brought back under control. Cameroon aims at becoming emerging by 2035. The government embarked upon a series of economic reform programs supported by the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF) beginning in the late 1980s. Many of these measures have been painful; the government slashed civil service salaries by 65% in 1993. The CFA franc – the common currency of Cameroon and 13 other African states – was devalued by 50% in January 1994. The government failed to meet the conditions of the first four IMF programs. This is a chart of trend of gross domestic product of Cameroon at market prices estimated by the International Monetary Fund with figures in millions of Central African CFA Francs. The following table shows the main economic indicators in 1980–2022. Inflation below 5% is in green. Gallery See also Cameroon Transport in Cameroon United Nations Economic Commission for Africa References External links Cameroon latest trade data on ITC Trade Map World Bank Summary Trade Statistics Cameroon Economies of developing countries Cameroon Cameroon
Telecommunications in Cameroon include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet. History During German rule, It was set up in the protectorate of Kamerun the first telegraph line, the first telephone line, and the first wireless telegraph. However, the country remained undeveloped in telecommunications. During First World War, Germans followed a scorched-earth policy that meant the destruction of communication lines, included telephone and telegraph. In British Cameroon, from 1916 to 1950s, communications in the country relied on flag post runners that had been described as "human telephone lines". Paths followed by the runners served as a base of the development of telegraph lines in the territory. For instance, the line from Buea-Kumba to Ossidinge used the same paths that the mail runners. In the mid-1930s, the wiring of British Cameroon received more support. Radio and television Radio stations: state-owned Cameroon Radio Television (CRTV); one private radio broadcaster; about 70 privately owned, unlicensed radio stations operating, but subject to closure at any time; foreign news services are required to partner with a state-owned national station (2007); 2 AM, 9 FM, and 3 shortwave stations (2001). Television stations: state-owned Cameroon Radio Television (CRTV), 2 private TV broadcasters (2007); one station (2001). BBC World Service radio is available via local relays (98.4 FM in Yaounde, the capital). The government maintains tight control over broadcast media. State-owned Cameroon Radio Television (CRTV), operates both a TV and a radio network. It was the only officially recognized and fully licensed broadcaster until August 2007 when the government issued licenses to two private TV and one private radio broadcasters. Approximately 375 privately owned radio stations were operating in 2012, three-fourths of them in Yaounde and Douala. The government requires nonprofit rural radio stations to submit applications to broadcast, but they were exempt from licensing fees. Commercial radio and television broadcasters must submit a licensing application and pay an application fee and thereafter pay a high annual licensing fee. Several rural community radio stations function with foreign funding. The government prohibits these stations from discussing politics. In spite of the government's tight control, Reporters Without Borders reported in its 2011 field survey that "[i]t is clear from the diversity of the media and the outspoken reporting style that press freedom is a reality". Telephones Calling code: +237 International call prefix: 00 Main lines: 737,400 lines in use, 88th in the world (2012); 130,700 lines in use (2006). Mobile cellular: 13.1 million lines, 64th in the world (2012); 4.5 million lines (2007). Telephone system: system includes cable, microwave radio relay, and tropospheric scatter; Camtel, the monopoly provider of fixed-line service, provides connections for only about 3 per 100 persons; equipment is old and outdated, and connections with many parts of the country are unreliable; mobile-cellular usage, in part a reflection of the poor condition and general inadequacy of the fixed-line network, has increased sharply, reaching a subscribership base of 50 per 100 persons (2011). Communications cables: South Atlantic 3/West Africa Submarine Cable (SAT-3/WASC) fiber-optic cable system provides connectivity to Europe and Asia (2011); Africa Coast to Europe (ACE), cable system connecting countries along the west coast of Africa to each other and to Portugal and France, is planned. Satellite earth stations: 2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2011). Internet Top-level domain: .cm Internet users: 1.1 million users, 113th in the world; 5.7% of the population, 184th in the world (2012). 985,565 users (2011); 749,600 users, 106th in the world (2009). Fixed broadband: 1,006 subscriptions, 180th in the world; less than 0.05% of the population, 190th in the world (2012). Wireless broadband: Unknown (2012). Internet hosts: 10,207 hosts, 134th in the world (2012); 69 hosts (2008). IPv4: 137,728 addresses allocated, less than 0.05% of the world total, 6.8 addresses per 1000 people (2012). Internet service providers (ISPs): Creolink Communications A number of projects are underway that will improve Internet access, telecommunications, and Information and communications technology (ICT) in general: Implementation of the e-post project, connecting 234 post offices throughout the country; Extension of the national optical fiber network, installation of the initial 3,200 km of fiber is complete and studies for the installation of an additional 3,400 km are underway; Construction of multipurpose community telecentres, some 115 telecentres are operating with an additional 205 under construction; Construction of metropolitan optical loops, the urban optical loop of Douala is complete and construction of the Yaounde loop is underway; Construction of submarine cable landing points; Establishment of public key infrastructure (PKI); Construction of a regional technology park to support the development of ICTs. Internet censorship and surveillance There are no government restrictions on access to the Internet or reports that the government monitors e-mail or Internet chat rooms. Although the law provides for freedom of speech and press, it also criminalizes media offenses, and the government restricts freedoms of speech and press. Government officials threaten, harass, arrest, and deny equal treatment to individuals or organizations that criticize government policies or express views at odds with government policy. Individuals who criticize the government publicly or privately sometimes face reprisals. Press freedom is constrained by strict libel laws that suppress criticism. These laws authorize the government, at its discretion and the request of the plaintiff, to criminalize a civil libel suit or to initiate a criminal libel suit in cases of alleged libel against the president and other high government officials. Such crimes are punishable by prison terms and heavy fines. Although the constitution and law prohibit arbitrary interference with privacy, family, home, or correspondence, these rights are subject to restriction for the "higher interests of the state", and there are credible reports that police and gendarmes harass citizens, conduct searches without warrants, and open or seize mail with impunity. See also Cameroon Radio Television, government-controlled national broadcaster. Commonwealth Telecommunications Organisation List of terrestrial fibre optic cable projects in Africa Media of Cameroon Cameroon References External links Antic.cm, top-level domain registry for Cameroon (.cm). Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications, Cameroon (MINPOSTEL) . English translation.
This article provides a breakdown of the transportation options available in Cameroon. The options available to citizens and tourists include railways, roadways, waterways, pipelines, and airlines. These avenues of transportation are used by citizens for personal transportation, by businesses for transporting goods, and by tourists for both accessing the country and traveling while there. Railways Railways in Cameroon are operated by Camrail, a subsidiary of French investment group Bolloré. As of May 2014 Camrail operated regular daily services on three routes: Douala - Kumba Douala - Yaoundé Yaoundé - Ngaoundéré Kribi - Mbalam and Nabeba in Republic of the Congo - under construction in 2022. Edéa - Kribi - proposed connection to deep water port. There are no rail links with neighboring countries except Republic of the Congo. Roadways Total highways: 50,000 km Paved: 5,000 km Unpaved: 45,000 km (2004) Cameroon lies at a key point in the Trans-African Highway network, with three routes crossing its territory: Dakar-N'Djamena Highway, connecting just over the Cameroon border with the N'Djamena-Djibouti Highway Lagos-Mombasa Highway Tripoli-Cape Town Highway Cameroon's central location in the network means that efforts to close the gaps which exist in the network across Central Africa rely on the Cameroon's participation in maintaining the network, and the network has the potential to have a profound influence on Cameroon's regional trade. Except for the several relatively good toll roads which connect major cities (all of them one-lane) roads are poorly maintained and subject to inclement weather, since only 10% of the roadways are tarred. It is likely for instance that within a decade, a great deal of trade between West Africa and Southern Africa will be moving on the network through Yaoundé. National highways in Cameroon: N1: Yaoundé - Bertoua - Ngaoundéré - Garoua - Maroua - Kouséri, border with Chad. N2: Yaoundé - Mbalmayo - Ebolowa - Woleu Ntem, border with Gabon. N3: Yaoundé - Edéa - Douala - Idenau. N4: Yaoundé - Bafia - Bafoussam. N5: Douala - Nkongsamba - Bafang - Bafoussam. N6: Ejagham, border with Nigeria - Bamenda - Bafoussam - Tibati - Lokoti. N7: Edéa - Kribi. N8: Mutengene - Kumba - Mamfé. N9: Mbalmayo - Nki, border with Congo. N10: Yaoundé - Bertoua - Batouri - Kenzou, border with the Central African Republic. N11 Bamenda Ring Road Linking, Mezam, Ngokitujia, Mbui, Boyo and Menchum Prices of petrol rose steadily in 2007 and 2008, leading to a transport union strike in Douala on 25 February 2008. The strike quickly escalated into violent protests and spread to other major cities. The uprising finally subsided on 29 February. Waterways 2,090 km; of decreasing importance. Navigation mainly on the Benue River; limited during rainy season. Seaports and harbors Douala - main port, railhead, and second largest city. Bonaberi - railhead to northwest Garoua Kribi - oil pipeline from Chad Kribi South - proposed iron ore export port, about 40 km south of Kribi. Tiko Pipelines 888 km of oil line (2008) Airports The main international airport is the Douala International Airport and a secondary international airport at Yaoundé Nsimalen International Airport. As of May 2014 Cameroon had regular international air connections with nearly every major international airport in West and Southwest Africa as well as several connections to Europe and East Africa. In 2008 there were 34 airports, only 10 of which had paved runways. List of airports in Cameroon Airports - with paved runways total: 10 over 3,047 m: 2 2,438 to 3,047 m: 4 1,524 to 2,437 m: 3 914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2008) Airports - with unpaved runways total: 24 1,524 to 2,437 m: 4 914 to 1,523 m: 14 under 914 m: 6 (2008) See also Camrail Cameroon Transport News African Integrated High Speed Railway Network (AIHSRN) Railway stations in Cameroon References Sundance Resources Ltd report
Cameroon's noncontentious, low-profile approach to foreign relations puts it squarely in the middle of other African and developing country states on major issues. It supports the principles of non-interference in the affairs of third world countries and increased assistance to underdeveloped countries. Cameroon is an active participant in the United Nations, where its voting record demonstrates its commitment to causes that include international peacekeeping, the rule of law, environmental protection, and Third World economic development. In the UN and other human rights fora, Cameroon's non-confrontational approach has generally led it to avoid criticizing other countries. Cameroon enjoys good relations with the United States and other developed countries. Cameroon enjoys generally good relations with its African neighbors. It supports UN peacekeeping activities in Central Africa. International disputes Delimitation of international boundaries in the vicinity of Lake Chad, the lack of which led to border incidents in the past, is complete and awaits ratification by Cameroon, Chad, Niger, and Nigeria; dispute with Nigeria over land and maritime boundaries around the Bakasi Peninsula and Lake Chad is currently before the International Court of Justice (ICJ), as is a dispute with Equatorial Guinea over the exclusive maritime economic zone. As of 10 October 2012, it has been resolved that Cameroon own Bakassi. Cameroon also faces a complaint filed with the African Commission on Human Rights by the Southern Cameroons National Council (SCNC) and the Southern Cameroons Peoples Organisation (SCAPO) against the Government of the Republic of Cameroon, in which the complainants allege that the Republic of Cameroon is illegally occupying the territory of Southern Cameroons. The SCNC and SCAPO ultimately seek the independence of the territory of Southern Cameroons. As of 2008, both parties have submitted briefs and responded to the Human Rights Commissions' inquiries. A ruling by the African Commission on Human Rights is awaited. Bilateral relations Multilateral relations In addition to the United Nations, Cameroon is very active in other multilateral organisations or global institutions such as the Organisation internationale de la Francophonie, The Commonwealth, the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, the Group of 77, the Non-Aligned Movement, the African Union and the Economic Community of Central African States. Refugees and internally displaced persons Refugees (country of origin): 20,000-30,000 (Chad); 3,000 (Nigeria); 24,000 (Central African Republic) (2007) See also List of diplomatic missions in Cameroon List of diplomatic missions of Cameroon References
Demographic features of the population of Cape Verde include population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. Cape Verde has a population of about 540,000 inhabitants who live in the islands. A large proportion (236,000) of Cape Verdeans live on the main island, Santiago. Many more live abroad in the Cape Verdean diaspora in mainland Africa, Europe, U.S., Brazil, et cetera. The archipelago of Cape Verde were first found and claimed by Portuguese sailors working for the Portuguese Crown in 1456. Cape Verdeans are West African. Many foreigners from other parts of the world settled in Cape Verde as their permanent country. Survival in a country with few natural resources has historically induced Cape Verdeans to emigrate. In fact, of the more than 1 million people of Cape Verdean ancestry in the world, only a little more than one-third actually live on the islands. Some 500,000 people of Cape Verdean ancestry live in the United States, mainly in New England. Many people of Cape Verdean ancestry also live in Portugal, Netherlands, France, Italy and Senegal. Cape Verdean populations also settled Spain, Germany, Canada, and other CPLP countries (Angola, Brazil and Guinea-Bissau). Since independence from Portugal in 1975, a number of Cape Verdean students continued to be admitted every year at Portuguese high schools, polytechnical institutes and universities, through bilateral agreements between the Portuguese and Cape Verdean governments. Portuguese functions as a state language. Virtually all formal documents and official declarations are stated in Portuguese. But it is not the first language. Cape Verdean, commonly called Kriolu, is spoken as a mother tongue by virtually all Cape Verdeans, irrespective of social status or religious affiliation. Moreover, historical linguists often attribute Cape Verdean Creole as the oldest "New World" contact language. It is a "contact" language in the sense that it was birthed and evolved between linguistically different groups who, by necessity, had to create a common language to communicate with each other. There is a rich repertoire of literature and songs in Cape Verdean Creole. In religion, the majority of Cape Verdeans follow Catholic Christianity. There are some Protestants, Baháʼís and Muslims. Population According to the total population was in , compared to only 178,000 in 1950. The proportion of children below the age of 15 in 2010 was 31.8%, 62.3% was between 15 and 65 years of age, while 5.9% was 65 years or older. Vital statistics Vital events of Cape Verde are not (yet) available for recent years. The Population Department of the United Nations prepared the following estimates. Births and deaths Fertility and births Total fertility rate (TFR) (wanted fertility rate) and crude birth rate (CBR): Fertility data from 2005 (DHS Program): Life expectancy Other demographic statistics Demographic statistics according to the World Population Review in 2022. One birth every 51 minutes One death every 160 minutes One net migrant every 480 minutes Net gain of one person every 90 minutes The following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook. Population 596,707 (2022 est.) 568,373 (July 2018 est.) Age structure 0-14 years: 27.95% (male 82,010/female 81,012) 15-24 years: 18.69% (male 54,521/female 54,504) 25-54 years: 40.76% (male 115,811/female 121,923) 55-64 years: 7.12% (male 18,939/female 22,597) 65 years and over: 5.48% (male 12,037/female 19,901) (2020 est.) 0-14 years: 28.7% (male 82,035 /female 81,082) 15-24 years: 19.64% (male 55,811 /female 55,798) 25-54 years: 40.02% (male 110,646 /female 116,804) 55-64 years: 6.4% (male 16,154 /female 20,245) 65 years and over: 5.24% (male 11,272 /female 18,526) (2018 est.) Median age total: 26.8 years. Country comparison to the world: 151st male: 25.9 years female: 27.6 years (2020 est.) total: 25.8 years. Country comparison to the world: 153rd male: 25 years female: 26.7 years (2018 est.) Total: 23.1 years Male: 22.3 years Female: 23.9 years (2012 est.) Population growth rate 1.21% (2022 est.) Country comparison to the world: 76th 1.32% (2018 est.) Country comparison to the world: 83rd Total fertility rate 2.13 children born/woman (2022 est.) Country comparison to the world: 92nd 2.21 children born/woman (2018 est.) Country comparison to the world: 95th Birth rate 18.49 births/1,000 population (2022 est.) Country comparison to the world: 79th 19.7 births/1,000 population (2018 est.) Country comparison to the world: 79th Death rate 5.8 deaths/1,000 population (2022 est.) Country comparison to the world: 168th 6 deaths/1,000 population (2018 est.) Country comparison to the world: 163rd Net migration rate -0.57 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2022 est.) Country comparison to the world: 126th -0.6 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2017 est.) Country comparison to the world: 128th Urbanization urban population: 67.5% of total population (2022) rate of urbanization: 1.83% annual rate of change (2020-25 est.) urban population: 65.7% of total population (2018) rate of urbanization: 1.97% annual rate of change (2015-20 est.) Contraceptive prevalence rate 55.8% (2018) Sex ratio At birth: 1.03 male(s)/female Under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female 15-64 years: 0.97 male(s)/female 65 years and over: 0.58 male(s)/female Total population: 0.95 male(s)/female (2009 est.) Life expectancy at birth total population: 73.75 years. Country comparison to the world: 144th male: 71.41 years female: 76.15 years (2022 est.) total population: 72.7 years (2018 est.) male: 70.3 years (2018 est.) female: 75.1 years (2018 est.) Country comparison to the world: 147th Total population: 71 years Male: 68.78 years Female: 73.27 years (2012 est.) HIV/AIDS Adult prevalence rate: 0.035% (2001 est.) People living with HIV/AIDS: 775 (2001) Deaths: 225 (as of 2001) Genetics E1b1a, R1b The predominance of West African mitochondrial DNA haplotypes in their maternal gene pool, the major West African Y-chromosome lineage E3a was observed only at a frequency of 15.9%. Overall, these results indicate that gene flow from multiple sources and sex-specific patterns have been important in the formation of the genomic diversity in the Cabo Verde islands. Religions Catholic 77.3%, Protestant 3.7% (includes Church of the Nazarene 1.7%, Adventist 1.5%, Universal Kingdom of God 0.4%, and God and Love 0.1%), other Christian 4.3% (includes Christian Rationalism 1.9%, Jehovah's Witness 1%, Assembly of God 0.9%, and New Apostolic 0.5%), Islam 1.8%, Other 1.3%, None 10.8%, Unspecified 0.7% (2010 estimate) Languages Portuguese (official), Kriolu Literacy Definition: age 15 and over can read and write Total population: 76.6% Male: 85.8% Female: 69.2% (2003 est.) School life expectancy (primary to tertiary education) total: 13 years male: 12 years female: 13 years (2018) total: 12 years (2017) male: 12 years (2017) female: 12 years (2017) Dependency ratios total dependency ratio: 55.4 (2015 est.) youth dependency ratio: 48.4 (2015 est.) elderly dependency ratio: 6.9 (2015 est.) potential support ratio: 14.4 (2015 est.) See also References External links National Institute of Statistics Demographic Highlights — Statistics from the Population Reference Bureau Society of Cape Verde
The Cape Verdean Armed Forces (), Cabo Verdean Armed Forces or FACV are the military of Cape Verde. They include two branches, the National Guard and the Coast Guard. History Before 1975, Cape Verde was an overseas province of Portugal, having a small Portuguese military garrison that included both Cape Verdean and European Portuguese soldiers. At the same time, some Cape Verdeans were serving in the People's Revolutionary Armed Forces (, FARP), the military wing of the African Party for the Independence of Guinea and Cape Verde that was fighting for the joint independence of Guinea and Cape Verde in the Guinea-Bissau War of Independence. The FARP became the national armed forces of Guinea-Bissau when its independence was recognized by Portugal in 1974. The Armed Forces of Cape Verde were created when the country became independent in 1975, being also officially designated the People's Revolutionary Armed Forces (, FARP). The Cape Verdean FARP consisted of two independent branches, the Army () and the Coast Guard (). In the early 1990s, the designation "FARP" was dropped and the military of Cape Verde was designated the Cape Verdean Armed Forces (, FACV). In 2007, the FACV started a major reorganization that included the transformation of the Army into the National Guard (). Together with the Cape Verdean Police, the FACV carried out Operation Flying Launch (), a successful operation to put an end to a drug trafficking group which smuggled cocaine from Colombia to the Netherlands and Germany using Cape Verde as a reorder point. The operation took more than three years, being a secret operation during the first two years, and ended in 2010. Although located in Africa, Cape Verde has always had close relations with Europe. Because of this, it has been argued that Cape Verde may be eligible for entry into the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe and NATO. The most recent engagement of the FACV was the Monte Tchota massacre that resulted in 11 deaths. Structure The Cape Verdean Armed Forces are part of the Ministry of National Defense of Cape Verde and include: the military bodies of command: Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces Office of the CEMFA Staff of the Armed Forces (EMFA) Personnel Command Logistics Command the National Guard the Coast Guard National Guard The National Guard (Guarda National) is the main branch of the Cape Verdean Armed Forces for the military defense of the country, being responsible for the execution of land and maritime environment operations and the support to internal security. It includes: Territorial commands: 1st Military Region Command 2nd Military Region Command 3rd Military Region Command Corps: Military Police Corps Marine Corps Artillery Corps There is no general command of the National Guard. Each military region command is headed by a lieutenant-colonel directly subordinate to the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces, and includes units of the three corps. Coast Guard The Coast Guard (Guarda Costeira) is the branch of the Cape Verdean Armed Forces responsible for the defense and protection of the country's economic interests at the sea under national jurisdiction and for providing air and naval support to land and amphibious operations. It includes: Coast Guard Command Maritime Security Operations Center (COSMAR) Naval Squadron Air Squadron The Coast Guard is headed by an officer with the rank of lieutenant colonel. The Naval and Air Squadrons incorporate, respectively, all the vessels and aircraft of the Cape Verdean Armed Forces. Ranks The rank insignia for commissioned officers for the national guard and coast guard. The rank insignia of enlisted for the national guard and coast guard. Equipment Armored vehicles 10 BRDM-2 Artillery 12 82-PM-41 6 120-PM-43 mortar Anti-aircraft 9K32 Strela-2 18 ZPU-1 12 ZU-23-2 Aircraft The Cape Verdean Army used to have its own air arm; after personnel training received from the USSR in 1982, three Antonov An-26 aircraft were delivered to Cape Verde – these were believed to be the only military aircraft possessed by the nation. However these three aircraft were supplemented in 1991 by a Dornier 228 light aircraft equipped for use by the Coast Guard, and, in the late 1990s by an EMB-110 aircraft from Brazil, similarly equipped for maritime operations. The government has been in negotiations with China to acquire multirole helicopters for both military and civilian use. Current Inventory Vessels 1 Kondor I patrol craft – 360 tons full load – commissioned 1970 1 Peterson MK 4 patrol craft – 22 tons – commissioned 1993 1 other patrol craft – 55 tons 1 Damen Stan 5009 patrol vessel – Guardiao (P511) – commissioned 2012 References Further reading: Defense Intelligence Agency, Military Intelligence Summary - Africa South of the Sahara, DDB 2680-104-85, ICOD 15 October 1984, declassified by letter dated April 29, 2014. External links The World Factbook http://www.nationmaster.com/country/cv-cape-verde/mil-military https://web.archive.org/web/20110721071532/http://praia.usembassy.gov/about-us/security-assistance-office.html http://www.snpc.cv/ Cape Verde Military Police Government of Cape Verde
Cape Verde follows a policy of nonalignment and seeks cooperative relations with all friendly states. Angola, Brazil, the People's Republic of China, Cuba, France, Germany, Portugal, Senegal, Russia, South Korea and the United States maintain embassies in Praia. Cape Verde is actively interested in foreign affairs, especially in Africa. It has bilateral relations with some Lusophone nations and holds membership in a number of international organizations. It also participates in most international conferences on economic and political issues. Diplomatic relations List of countries with which Cape Verde maintains diplomatic relations with: Bilateral relations Multilateral Relations European Union See also List of diplomatic missions in Cape Verde List of diplomatic missions of Cape Verde International organization membership of Cape Verde International recognition of Cape Verde References
The Cayman Islands are a British dependency and island country. It is a three-island archipelago in the Caribbean Sea, consisting of Grand Cayman, Cayman Brac, and Little Cayman. Georgetown, the capital of the Cayman Islands is south of Havana, Cuba, and northwest of Kingston, Jamaica, northeast of Costa Rica, north of Panama and are between Cuba and Central America. Georgetown's geographic coordinates are 19.300° north, 81.383° west. The Cayman Islands have a land area of approximately 1.5 times the size of Washington, D.C. and just larger than Saint Kitts and Nevis. The Cayman Islands have a coastline of . The Cayman Islands make a maritime claim of a exclusive fishing zone and a territorial sea of . Geology The islands are located on the Cayman Rise which forms the northern margin of the Cayman Trough. The trough is the deepest point in the Caribbean Sea and forms part of the tectonic boundary between the North American Plate and the Caribbean Plate. The Cayman Rise extends from southeastern Cuba along the northern margin of the Cayman Trough toward Costa Rica and resulted from Paleocene to Eocene island arc formation with associated volcanism along an extinct subduction zone. The islands are formed of marine limestone and dolomite that was uplifted during the late Miocene epoch. Due to the Islands' location, the Cayman Islands do get earthquakes. Climate The Cayman Islands have a tropical wet and dry climate, with a wet season from May to December, and a dry season that runs from January to April. Terrain is mostly a low-lying limestone base surrounded by coral reefs. Besides earthquakes another major natural hazard is the tropical cyclones that form during the Atlantic hurricane season from June to November. Environmental issues An important environmental issue is the lack of fresh water resources. Drinking water supplies must be met by rainwater catchment and desalination. There is also a problem with trash washing up on the beaches or being deposited by there by residents. The Cayman Islands have no recycling or waste treatment facilities. Natural resources Natural resources include fish and a climate and beaches that foster tourism, which is the islands' major industry. A 2012 estimate of land use determined that the Cayman Islands' had 0.83 percent arable land and 2.08 percent permanent crops. Districts The territory is subdivided into six districts that are governed by district managers and that have a role as electoral districts and as regional units for statistics. Five of the districts are located on the main island, Grand Cayman. The sixth, Sister Islands, comprises the islands of Little Cayman and Cayman Brac. The population is concentrated in the three (south-)western districts George Town (capital), West Bay, and Bodden Town. Those have a population density many times higher than all remaining districts. Extreme points Northernmost point – Booby Point, Cayman Brac Easternmost point – North East Point, Cayman Brac Southernmost point – Great Pedro Point, Grand Cayman Westernmost point – North West Point, Grand Cayman Lowest point – Caribbean Sea (0m) Highest point – 1 km SW of The Bluff, Cayman Brac (50m) References External links Districts of Cayman Islands, Statoids.com Cayman vents are world's hottest (BBC News, 10 January 2012) Cayman Islands Land
This is a demography of the population of the Cayman Islands including population density, ethnicity, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. Population With its success in the tourism and financial service industries, the Cayman Islands have attracted many international businesses and citizens to relocate. The largest numbers of expatriates living in the Cayman Islands hail from Jamaica (11,703), the United Kingdom (1,708), the Philippines (4,119), and India (1,218). Approximately 8,139 more residents are citizens of various other countries. While the government does not restrict foreign land ownership, it does strongly enforce its immigration laws. Businesses are required to grant access to job openings to Caymanian citizens first; if none of them are suitable, the business may then seek employees from other countries. In order to work in the Cayman Islands, foreigners must have a job offer before immigrating. The Cayman Islands population is expected to reach 100,000 people before 2030, as the population has rapidly grown since the end of covid-19 restrictions. District populations The vast majority of its residents live on the island of Grand Cayman, at 67,493. According to the 2021 census, only 2,163 people lived on Cayman Brac or Little Cayman, bringing the total population to 69,656, broken down as follows: George Town: 34,399 West Bay: 14,931 Bodden Town: 14,268 North Side: 1,840 East End: 1,749 Cayman Brac and Little Cayman (Sister Islands): 2,163 Vital statistics Structure of the population Ethnic groups Although many Caribbean islands were initially populated by Amerindian groups such as the Taíno and Kalinago, no evidence of this has been found in the Cayman Islands. Therefore, native Caymanians do not have any Amerindian heritage from their own islands; however, a significant number of Jamaicans have settled in the Cayman Islands over the years, so they and their descendants may have some Amerindian blood via Jamaica. Slavery was less common on the Cayman Islands than in many other parts of the Caribbean, resulting in a more even division of African and European ancestry. Those of mixed race make up 41.3% of the population, with white Caymanians and immigrants of European ancestry making up 24.1%, and black Caymanians and immigrants of African ancestry following at 23.9%. South Asians, mainly Filipinos and Indians, as well as Caymanians of South Asian descent, make up 8.1%, and the remaining 2.6% belong to various ethnic groups. Language The official language of the Cayman Islands is English. The Caymanian accent retains elements passed down from English, Scottish, and Welsh settlers (among others) in a language variety known as Cayman Creole. Young Caymanians often borrow terms from Jamaican patois due to the popularity of Jamaican pop culture and influences from Jamaican immigrants in the islands. It is also quite commonplace to hear some residents converse in Spanish as many citizens have relocated from Latin America to work and live on Grand Cayman. The Latin American nations with greatest representation are Honduras, Cuba, Colombia, Nicaragua, and the Dominican Republic. Spanish speakers comprise almost 10% of the population and is predominantly of the Caribbean dialect. Tagalog is spoken by about 8% of inhabitants most of whom are Filipino residents on work permits. The remainder of the population converse in various languages, with some including Hindi, Afrikaans and Portuguese. Religion The predominant religion on the Cayman Islands, as of 2021, is Christianity at 66.9%; this is down from over 80% in 2010. Denominations practiced include; Church of God, United Church, Anglican Church, Baptist Church, Roman Catholic Church, Seventh-day Adventist Church, and Pentecostal Church. Roman Catholic churches are St. Ignatius Church, George Town and Stella Maris Church, Cayman Brac. Many citizens are deeply religious, regularly going to church, however, the number of Caymanians who identify as non-religious has skyrocketed since the 2010 census, with around 25% professing no religion or a denomination not widespread. This is up from 9.3% during the last census. Ports are closed on Sundays and Christian holidays. There are places of worship in George Town for Jehovah's Witnesses and followers of the Baháʼí Faith. The Cayman Islands also hosts a growing Jewish community. Hinduism is a minority religion in the Cayman Islands and is one of the smallest religions. Although it is unknown as to when Hinduism was introduced to the Cayman Islands. There is no Hindu temple located in the Cayman Islands, but there is at least one home which is set aside for the purpose of worship. There were only 98 Hindus in the Caymans according to the 2000 census (about 0.25% of the population). In the 2008 census, the number of Hindus increased to 510 (1% of the total population). The 2010 Census showed the number of Hindus decreasing to 454 (0.8% of the total Cayman Islands population). References External links Cayman Islands Chamber of Commerce UNESCO report on education in the Cayman Islands
The politics of the Cayman Islands takes place within a framework of parliamentary democracy, within the confines of the Government of the Cayman Islands. Constitutional Modernisation Constitutional Modernisation has come to the forefront of politics recently with the collapse of the now defunct Euro Bank Corporation in 2003. The prosecution in the trial was forced to reveal that the British Government had planted moles (and used wire taps) throughout the banking industry using MI6, with the consent of the Governor. This caused the trial's collapse, and subsequent release of those charged with wrongdoing. Along with this, the only mole that was known at the time was allowed to leave the country, never to answer for what he (or the United Kingdom) was doing. This infuriated the elected members of the Legislative Assembly as they maintained that the Governor and the United Kingdom had put into question the Cayman Islands' reputation as a tightly regulated offshore jurisdiction. Some saw this as the United Kingdom meddling in the territory's affairs to benefit itself (and the EU), at the expense of the islands' economy. Constitutional talks however went on hold following Hurricane Ivan in 2004. Subsequently, in May 2005 the ruling UDP was ousted by the PPM, which restarted the process of constitutional modernisation. The new constitution took effect on 6 November 2009. See also Elections in the Cayman Islands References
Communications in the Cayman Islands Telephone Telephones – main lines in use: 37,400 (2009) Telephones – mobile cellular: 99,900 (2004) Telephone system: Domestic: Reasonably good overall telephone system with a high fixed-line teledensity. Liberalization of telecom market in 2003; introduction of competition in the mobile-cellular market in 2004. FLOW Cayman, Digicel International: The Cayman Islands have landing points for the MAYA-1, and the Cayman-Jamaica Fiber System submarine cables that provide links to the US and parts of Central and South America. Service on both of these cables are controlled by Liberty Latin America. Satellite earth station – 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007) Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) Radio Radio broadcast stations: AM 0, FM 17, shortwave 0 (2006) List of radio stations in Cayman Islands Radios: 36,000 (1997) Television Television broadcast stations: Cayman27 Internet Internet Service Providers (ISPs):Four companies offer internet service in the islands with in fixed configurations or mobile or both: Liberty Latin America d/b/a FLOW Digicel Logic - Fibre based service. Founded in 2004 as WestTel when it was granted a telecommunications license. Purchased TeleCayman in 2013 C3 Country code (Top-level domain): .ky References Cayman Islands Cayman
The transport infrastructure of the Cayman Islands consists of a public road network, two seaports, and three airports. Roads As of 2000, the Cayman Islands had a total of 488 miles (785 km) of paved highway. Driving is on the left, and speed is reckoned in miles per hour, as in the UK. The legal blood alcohol content is 100mg per 100ml (0.1%), the highest in the world. Seaports Two ports, Cayman Brac and George Town, serve the islands. One hundred and twenty-three ships (of 1,000 GT or more) are registered in the Cayman Islands, with a total capacity of 2,402,058 GT/. Some foreign ships (including vessels from Cyprus, Denmark, Greece, Norway, the UK, and US) are registered in the Cayman Islands under a flag of convenience. (All figures are 2002 estimates.) Airports There are three airports on the Islands. The main airport Owen Roberts International Airport serving Grand Cayman, Charles Kirkconnell International Airport serving Cayman Brac and Edward Bodden Airfield serving Little Cayman. Buses A fleet of Share taxi minibuses serves Grand Cayman. A daily service starts at 6.00 from the depot and runs as follows from George Town to: West Bay — every 15 minutes: 6.00–23.00 (24.00 on Fr, Sa). CI$1.50 each way. Bodden Town — every 30 minutes: 6.00–23.00 (24.00 on Fr, Sa). CI$1.50 each way. East End and North Side — every hour, 6.00–21.00 (24.00 on Fr). CI$2 each way. Colour-coded logos on the front and rear of the buses (white mini-vans) identify the routes: See also Cayman Islands References
The foreign relations of the Cayman Islands are largely managed from the United Kingdom, as the islands remains one of 14 overseas territories under British jurisdiction and sovereignty. However, the Government of the Cayman Islands have autonomy and often resolves important issues with foreign governments alone, without intervention from Britain. Although in its early days, the Cayman Islands' most important relationships were with Britain and Jamaica, in recent years, this has shifted, and they now rely more so on the United States and Canada. Though the Cayman Islands are involved in no major international disputes, they have come under some criticism due to the use of their territory for narcotics trafficking and money laundering. In an attempt to address this, the Government entered into the Narcotics Agreement of 1984 and the Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty of 1986 with the United States, in order to reduce the use of their facilities associated with these activities. In more recent years, they have stepped up the fight against money laundering, by limiting banking secrecy, introducing requirements for customer identification and record keeping, and requiring banks to cooperate with foreign investigators. Due to their status as an overseas territory of the UK, the Cayman Islands have no representation either on the United Nations, or in most other international organizations. However, the Cayman Islands still participates in some international organisations, being a full member of the Central Development Bank and International Olympic Committee, an associate member of Caricom and UNESCO, and a member of a subbureau of Interpol. Bilateral relations India United States References See also Foreign relations of the United Kingdom British Overseas Territories Government of the Cayman Islands Foreign relations of the Caribbean
The Central African Republic is a landlocked nation within the interior of the African continent. It is bordered by Cameroon, Chad, Sudan, South Sudan, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Republic of the Congo. Much of the country consists of flat, or rolling plateau savanna, about above sea level. In the northeast are the Fertit Hills, and there are scattered hills in the southwestern part of the country. To the northwest is the Karre Mountains (also known as Yade Massif), a granite plateau with an altitude of . At , the Central African Republic is the world's 45th-largest country (after Somalia). It is comparable in size to Ukraine. Much of the southern border is formed by tributaries of the Congo River, with the Mbomou River in the east merging with the Uele River to form the Ubangi River. In the west, the Sangha River flows through part of the country. The eastern border lies along the edge of the Congo-Nile watershed. Estimates of the amount of the country covered by forest range up to 8%, with the densest parts in the south. The forest is highly diverse and includes commercially important species of Ayous, Sapele and Sipo. The deforestation rate is 0.4% per annum, and lumber poaching is commonplace. Climate The climate of the Central African Republic is generally a tropical savanna climate (Köppen Aw), although there are areas with a tropical monsoon climate (Köppen Am) and in the north there is also a hot semi-arid climate (Köppen BSh). There is a wet season and a dry season, and the temperature is hot throughout the year. The northern areas are subject to harmattan winds, which are hot, dry, and carry dust. The tip of the northern regions have been subject to desertification. The remainder of the country is prone to flooding from nearby rivers. About one third of the Central African Republic's population do not have access to clean water. Notes Location: Central Africa, north of Democratic Republic of the Congo Area - comparative: Slightly smaller than Somalia Slightly larger than Ukraine Land boundaries: total: 5,920 km border countries: Cameroon 901 km, Chad 1,556 km, Democratic Republic of the Congo 1,747 km, Republic of the Congo 487 km, Sudan 174 km and South Sudan 1,055 km Coastline: 0 km (landlocked) Terrain: vast, flat to rolling, monotonous plateau; scattered hills in northeast and southwest Elevation extremes: lowest point: Oubangui River 335 m highest point: Mont Ngaoui 1,420 m Natural resources: diamonds, uranium, timber, gold, petroleum, hydropower Land use: arable land: 2.89% permanent crops: 0.13% other: 96.98% (2012 est.) Irrigated land: 1.35 km2 (2003) Total renewable water resources: 144.4 km3 (2011) Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural): total: 0.07 km3/yr (83%/17%/1%) per capita: 17.42 m3/yr (2005) Natural hazards: hot, dry, dusty harmattan winds affect northern areas; floods are common Environment - current issues: tap water is not potable; poaching has diminished its reputation as one of the last great wildlife refuges; desertification Environment - international agreements: party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands signed, but not ratified: Law of the Sea Geography - note: landlocked; almost the precise center of Africa Extreme points This is a list of the extreme points of the Central African Republic, the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location. Northernmost point - unnamed location in the Aoukal river on the border with Chad, Vakaga Prefecture Easternmost point - unnamed location immediately East of the tripoint with South Sudan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo and south of the town of Ezo in South Sudan, Haut-Mbomou Prefecture Southernmost point - the tripoint with Cameroon and the Republic of Congo, Sangha-Mbaéré Prefecture Westernmost point - unnamed location on the border with Cameroon west of the town of Koundé in Central African Republic near Cameroon's Lokoti to Garoua Boulai road, Nana-Mambéré Prefecture References pt:República Centro-Africana#Geografia
Demographic features of the population of the Central African Republic include population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. There are more than 80 ethnic groups in the Central African Republic (CAR), each with its own language. About 50% are Baya-Mandjia, 40% Banda (largely located in the northern and central parts of the country), and 7% are M'Baka (southwestern corner of the CAR). Sangho, the language of a small group along the Oubangui River, is the national language spoken by the majority of Central Africans. Only a small part of the population has more than an elemental knowledge of French, the official language. More than 55% of the population of the CAR lives in rural areas. The chief agricultural areas are around the Bossangoa and Bambari. Bangui, Berberati, Bangassou, and Bossangoa are the most densely populated urban centers. Population According to the total population was in , compared to only 1 327 000 in 1950. The proportion of children below the age of 15 in 2010 was 40.4%, 55.6% were between 15 and 65 years of age, while 4% were 65 years or older. Vital statistics Registration of vital events is not complete in the Central African Republic. The Population Department of the United Nations prepared the following estimates. Source: UN DESA, World Population Prospects, 2022 Fertility and Births Total Fertility Rate (TFR) (Wanted Fertility Rate) and Crude Birth Rate (CBR): Life expectancy Other demographic statistics Demographic statistics according to the World Population Review in 2022. One birth every 3 minutes One death every 9 minutes One net migrant every 25 minutes Net gain of one person every 6 minutes The following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook. Population 5,454,533 (2022 est.) Country comparison to the world: 119th 5,745,062 (July 2018 est.) Note: estimates for this country explicitly take into account the effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July 2015 est.) Age structure 0-14 years: 39.49% (male 1,188,682/female 1,176,958) 15-24 years: 19.89% (male 598,567/female 593,075) 25-54 years: 32.95% (male 988,077/female 986,019) 55-64 years: 4.32% (male 123,895/female 134,829) 65 years and over: 3.35% (male 78,017/female 122,736) (2020 est.) 0-14 years: 39.89% (male 1,151,724 /female 1,140,083) 15-24 years: 19.91% (male 574,969 /female 568,942) 25-54 years: 32.64% (male 938,365 /female 936,948) 55-64 years: 4.17% (male 112,310 /female 127,045) 65 years and over: 3.39% (male 75,401 /female 119,275) (2018 est.) Median age total: 20 years. Country comparison to the world: 194th male: 19.7 years female: 20.3 years (2020 est.) total: 19.8 years. Country comparison to the world: 197th male: 19.5 years female: 20.1 years (2018 est.) Total: 21.4 years Male: 19.6 years Female: 20.2 years (2015 est.) Population growth rate 1.78% (2022 est.) Country comparison to the world: 52nd 2.11% (2018 est.) Country comparison to the world: 43rd 2.12% (2016 est.) Birth rate 32.79 births/1,000 population (2022 est.) Country comparison to the world: 23rd 34 births/1,000 population (2018 est.) Country comparison to the world: 24th Death rate 11.76 deaths/1,000 population (2022 est.) Country comparison to the world: 16th 12.9 deaths/1,000 population (2018 est.) Net migration rate -3.22 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2022 est.) Country comparison to the world: 183rd 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2017 est.) Country comparison to the world: 78th Total fertility rate 4.04 children born/woman (2022 est.) Country comparison to the world: 27th 4.25 children born/woman (2018 est.) Country comparison to the world: 29th Urbanization urban population: 43.1% of total population (2022) rate of urbanization: 3.32% annual rate of change (2020-25 est.) Sex ratio At birth: 1.03 male(s)/female Under 15 years: 1.01 male(s)/female 15-64 years: 0.98 male(s)/female 65 years and over: 0.67 male(s)/female Total population: 0.98 male(s)/female (2015 est.) Life expectancy at birth total population: 55.52 years. Country comparison to the world: 226th male: 54.19 years female: 56.88 years (2022 est.) male: 51.9 years (2018 est.) female: 54.7 years (2018 est.) Dependency ratios total dependency ratio: 90 (2015 est.) youth dependency ratio: 83.1 (2015 est.) elderly dependency ratio: 7 (2015 est.) potential support ratio: 14.4 (2015 est) Contraceptive prevalence rate 17.8% (2019) 15.2% (2010/11) School life expectancy total: 7 years (2012) male: 8 years (2012) female: 6 years (2012) HIV/AIDS Adult prevalence rate: 4.7% (2009 est.) People living with HIV/AIDS: 130,000 (2009 est.) Deaths: 11,000 (2010 est.) Major infectious diseases degree of risk: very high (2020) food or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A and E, and typhoid fever vectorborne diseases: malaria and dengue fever water contact diseases: schistosomiasis animal contact diseases: rabies respiratory diseases: meningococcal meningitis note: on 21 March 2022, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) issued a Travel Alert for polio in Africa; the Central African Republic is currently considered a high risk to travelers for polio; the CDC recommends that before any international travel, anyone unvaccinated, incompletely vaccinated, or with an unknown polio vaccination status should complete the routine polio vaccine series; before travel to any high-risk destination, CDC recommends that adults who previously completed the full, routine polio vaccine series receive a single, lifetime booster dose of polio vaccine Nationality Noun: Central African(s) Adjective: Central African Ethnic groups An approximate distribution of the ethnic groups is shown in the chart below: Religion Indigenous beliefs 35%, Protestant 25%, Roman Catholic 25%, Islam 15% note: animistic beliefs and practices strongly influence the Christian majority Languages Sango (lingua franca and official language), French (official), tribal languages Literacy Definition: age 15 and over can read and write Total population: 51% Male: 63.3% Female: 39.9% (2010 est.) Urbanization urban population: 41.4% of total population (2018) rate of urbanization: 2.52% annual rate of change (2015-20 est.) See also Demographics of Africa List of ethnic groups of Africa References Attribution:
The politics of the Central African Republic formally take place in a framework of a semi-presidential republic. In this system, the President is the head of state, with a Prime Minister as head of government. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and parliament. Changes in government have occurred in recent years by three methods: violence, negotiations, and elections. Both François Bozizé and Michel Djotodia assumed the Presidency through takeover by violent means; however, elections were held in March 2005 and promised in 2013. A ceasefire agreement in January 2013 called for a multipartisan unity government. The government was deposed on 13 March 2003 by forces under the rebel leader Bozizé, who promised elections in 18 to 30 months. A new cabinet was set up on 1 April 2003. Elections were held on 13 March 2005. On 11 January 2013, a ceasefire was signed by the Séléka rebel coalition, which had aimed to bring down the government of President Bozizé. According to this agreement, a new unity government would be formed. The President would appoint a new prime minister from the opposition parties, and the National Assembly of the Central African Republic would be dissolved and new legislative elections would be held within twelve months. However, two months later, the Séléka rebels felt their terms were not being met, and at the culmination of the Central African Civil War, they attacked and took the capital, Bangui. The president, Bozizé, fled to neighboring Cameroon via the Democratic Republic of Congo on 24 March 2013. On 14 December 2015, a new constitution by referendum and ratified on 27 March 2016. Since 30 March 2016, Faustin-Archange Touadéra is the president of the Central African Republic. Executive branch |President |Faustin-Archange Touadéra |Independent |30 March 2016 |- |Prime Minister |Félix Moloua |Independent |7 February 2022 |- |} The president is elected by popular vote for a five-year term, the prime minister is appointed by the president. The president also appoints and presides over the Council of Ministers, which initiates laws and oversees government operations. Legislative branch Since 27 March 2016, the Parliament of the Central African Republic is composed of two bodies: the National Assembly and the Senate. The National Assembly (Assemblée Nationale) has 105 members, elected for a five-year term using the two-round (or Run-off) system. The Senate (Sénat) will have members, elected for a five-year term using an indirect vote. Political parties and elections Judicial branch The Supreme Court, or Cour Supreme, is made up of judges appointed by the president. There is also a Constitutional Court, and its judges are also appointed by the president. Administrative divisions The Central African Republic is divided in 14 prefectures (prefectures), 2 economic prefectures* (prefectures economiques), and 1 commune**; Bamingui-Bangoran, Bangui**, Basse-Kotto, Gribingui*, Haute-Kotto, Haute-Sangha, Haut-Mbomou, Kemo-Gribingui, Lobaye, Mbomou, Nana-Mambere, Ombella-Mpoko, Ouaka, Ouham, Ouham-Pende, Sangha*, Vakaga. International organization participation ACCT, ACP, AfDB, BDEAC, CCC, CEEAC, ECA, FAO, FZ, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM, OAU, OIC (observer), OPCW, UDEAC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO References External links Constitution of the Central African Republic pt:República Centro-Africana#Política
Telecommunications in the Central African Republic includes radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet as well as the postal system. Persistent conflict has hampered telecommunication and media development in the Central African Republic. There are active television services, radio stations, internet service providers, and mobile phone carriers. Radio is the most-popular communications medium. Socatel is the leading provider for both Internet and mobile phone access throughout the country. The primary governmental regulating bodies of telecommunications are the Ministère des Postes (Ministry of Posts), and Télécommunications et des Nouvelles Technologies (Telecommunications and New Technologies). Support is received from the ITU Telecommunication Development Sector (ITU-D) within the International Telecommunication Union to improve telecommunications infrastructure. Radio and television Radio stations: the State-owned radio network, Radio Centrafrique, is supplemented by a small number of privately owned broadcast stations as well as a few community radio stations; transmissions of at least 2 international broadcasters are available (2007). The BBC World Service (90.2 FM), Radio France Internationale, and the Voice of America are available via local relays in the capital, Bangui. Radios: 283,000 (1997). Television stations: Government-owned network, Télévision Centrafricaine (TCF), provides domestic TV broadcasting; licenses for 2 private TV stations were pending (2007). Television sets: 18,000 (1997). In Bangui, UN-sponsored Radio Ndeke Luka ("bird of luck") provides balanced output, and rebroadcasts international news programming. Other radio and TV stations are run by the state-run Radiodiffusion-Television Centrafricaine and provide little coverage of the political opposition. There are about two dozen privately owned radio stations. Many, such as Radio Notre Dame, run by religious organisations. Starting 24 November 2011 La Radio et la Télévision nationale centrafricaine (TVCA) (Central African Radio (CAR) and National Television) are available via satellite. This move brought state-run national radio and television coverage to the entire country. Telephones Calling code: +236 International call prefix: 00 Main lines: 5,600 lines in use, 209th in the world (2012). Mobile cellular: 1.1 million lines, 157th in the world (2012). Telephone system: The network consists principally of microwave radio relay and low-capacity, low-powered radiotelephone communication; limited telephone service with less than one fixed-line connection per 100 persons; spurred by the presence of multiple mobile-cellular service providers, cellular usage is increasing from a low base; most fixed-line and mobile-cellular telephone services are concentrated in the capital, Bangui (2011). Satellite earth stations: 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2011). GSM coverage was for a long time limited to the capital area. But in June 2006 coverage was expanded at least to Berberati in the western part of the country. There are currently two GSM-900 mobile operators, Telecel CAR and NationLink Telecom RCA. A third network, Centrafrique Telecom Plus closed down in late 2005 after failing to attract more than 5,000 subscribers and failing to renew its license, in accordance with the then new Bozize government policies. Internet Top-level domain: .cf Internet users: 151,716 users, 160th in the world; 3.0% of the population, 195th in the world (2012). 22,600 users, 192nd in the world (2009). Internet hosts: 20 hosts, 221st in the world (2012). IPv4: 4,352 addresses allocated, less than 0.05% of the world total, 0.9 addresses per 1000 people (2012). Internet Service Providers (ISPs): Moov, Orange, Socatel, and Telecel. Internet censorship and surveillance There are no government restrictions on access to the Internet or credible reports that the government monitors e-mail or Internet chat rooms without judicial oversight. Although the constitution and law provide for freedom of speech and press, authorities occasionally arrest journalists critical of the government and in some cases the government impedes individuals’ right to free speech. Imprisonment for defamation and censorship were abolished in 2005; however, journalists found guilty of libel or slander face fines of 100,000 to eight million CFA francs ($200 to US$16,000). The law provides for imprisonment and fines of as much as one million CFA francs (US$2,000) for journalists who use the media to incite disobedience among security forces or incite persons to violence, hatred, or discrimination. Similar fines and imprisonment of six months to two years may be imposed for the publication or broadcast of false or fabricated information that "would disturb the peace." Postal system L'Office National de la Poste et de l'Épargne (ONPE) is the government organization responsible for the postal service. See also Media of the Central African Republic Economy of the Central African Republic Central African Republic References External links Central African Republic profile, BBC News. Communications in the Central African Republic
Modes of transport in the Central African Republic include road, water, and air. Most of the country is connected to the road network, but not all of it. Some roads in the country do not connect to the rest of the national road network and may become impassable, especially during heavy monsoon rain. Many remote areas that not connected to the country's road network, especially in the eastern part of the country outside of the major cities and towns, can only be reached by light aircraft, boat (via river) or on foot. Most roads are unpaved, and which centres on the routes nationales identified as RN1 to RN11. Bangui serves as a seaport, and 900 km of inland waterways are navigable, the main route being the Oubangui river. There is one international airport at Bangui-Mpoko, two other paved airports, and over 40 with unpaved runways. Railways There are presently no railways in the Central African Republic. A line from Cameroon port of Kribi to Bangui was proposed in 2002. Highways Total: 23,810 km Paved: 643 km Unpaved: 23,167 km (1999 est.) Major roads include: RN1 (Route Nationale 1) north from Bangui. 482 km via Bossangoa to Moundou, Chad. RN2 east from Bangui. 1202 km via Bambari and Bangassou to the South Sudanese border at Bambouti. RN3 west from RN1 at Bossembélé. 453 km via Bouar and Baboua to Boulai on the Cameroon border as part of the east-west Trans-African Highway 8 Lagos-Mombasa. RN4 from RN2 at Damara, 76 km north of Bangui, north 554 km via Bouca and Batangafo to Sarh, Chad. RN6 south and west from Bangui, 605 km via Mbaïki, Carnot and Berbérati to Gamboula on the border with Cameroon. RN8 north-east from RN2 at Sibut, 023 km via Kaga Bandoro, Ndéle, and Birao to the Sudanese border. RN10 south from RN6 at Berbérati, 136 km via Bania to Nola. RN11 from Baoro on RN3 south, 104 km to Carnot on RN6. The roads east to Sudan and north to Chad are poorly maintained. Waterways 900 km; traditional trade carried on by means of shallow-draft dugouts; Oubangui is the most important river, navigable all year to craft drawing 0.6 m or less; 282 km navigable to craft drawing as much as 1.8 m. Ports and harbors There is only one river port. It is at the city of Bangui. Airports Airports with paved runways Total: 3 2,438 to 3,047 m: 1 1,524 to 2,437 m: 2 (2002) The most important airport in the Central African Republic is Bangui M'Poko International Airport (ICAO: FEFF) Airports with unpaved runways Total: 47 2,438 to 3,047 m: 1 1,524 to 2,437 m: 10 914 to 1,523 m: 23 Under 914 m: 13 (2002) See also Central African Republic References External links UN Map
President François Bozizé has said that one of his priorities is to get the support of the international community. This has indeed been visible in his relations to donor countries and international organisations. At the same time it is difficult to have an open policy towards neighbouring countries when they are used as safe haven by rebels regularly attacking Central African Republic (C.A.R.), or when one allied country is in war with another (as is Chad–Sudan). The Central African Armed Forces cannot–even with the support of France and the Multinational Force of the Economic and Monetary Community of Central Africa (FOMUC)–exert control over its own borders. Hence, armed groups are regularly entering the country from Chad and Sudan. The President said in an interview that he has a good relation with neighbours and fellow CEMAC countries, "put aside the incident with Sudan when the border had to be closed since militia entered C.A.R. territory". Participation in international organisations The Central African Republic is an active member in several Central African organizations, including the Economic and Monetary Union (CEMAC), the Economic Community of Central African States (CEEAC), the Central African Peace and Security Council (COPAX- still under formation), and the Central Bank of Central African States (BEAC). Standardization of tax, customs, and security arrangements between the Central African states is a major foreign policy objective of the C.A.R. Government. The C.A.R. is a participant in the Community of Sahel–Saharan States (CEN-SAD), and the African Union (AU). Other multilateral organizations—including the World Bank, International Monetary Fund, United Nations agencies, European Union, and the African Development Bank—and bilateral donors—including the Republic of Korea, Germany, Japan, the European Union, and the United States—are significant development partners for the C.A.R. Bilateral relations Nineteen countries have resident diplomatic representatives in Bangui, and the C.A.R. maintains approximately the same number of missions abroad. Since early 1989 the government recognizes both Israel and the State of Palestine. The C.A.R. also maintains diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China. The C.A.R. generally joins other African and developing country states in consensus positions on major policy issues. The most important countries the C.A.R. maintains bilateral relations include the following. Non-bilateral relations Central African Republic–China relations Central African Republic–India relations See also List of diplomatic missions in the Central African Republic List of diplomatic missions of the Central African Republic Notes References Government of the Central African Republic Politics of the Central African Republic
The technical regulator of communications in Chile is the Ministry of Transportation and Telecommunications, through the Undersecretariat of Telecommunications (Subtel). Telephone History Telephone and telegraph services started in Chile in 1879, three years after Alexander Graham Bell, presented his patent for a telephonic system. José Dottin Husbands, an associate of Thomas Edison, arrived into the port of Valparaíso carrying the first set of switching equipment and telephones. By 1880 the first telephone company of the country is born (Compañía Chilena de Teléfonos de Edison), while in 1893, after a rapid expansion in the northern regions of Chile, telephone services started operating in the south, thanks to the founding of Telefónica del Sur (current day Grupo GTD), a company created by a group of German immigrants that had previously settled in the area of Valdivia, Región de los Ríos. Main lines in use: 2,567,938 (2020 est.) Mobile cellular: 25,068,249 (2020 est.) Pre-paid: 17,283,257 Post-paid: 6,847,497 System: privatization began in 1988; advanced telecommunications infrastructure; modern system based on extensive microwave radio relay facilities; fixed-line connections have dropped in recent years as mobile-cellular usage continues to increase, reaching a level of 85 telephones per 100 persons Domestic: extensive microwave radio relay links; domestic satellite system with 3 earth stations international: country code - 56; submarine cables provide links to the US and to Central and South America; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) (2007) Radio Broadcast stations: 1,490 (175 AM; 1,315 FM) (2006) Television Broadcast stations: 63 (plus 121 repeaters) (1997) Broadcast television system: NTSC Pay television: 4,158,874 (2012) Internet Internet hosts: 847,215 (2008) Internet users: 16,822,264 (2020 est.) Internet mobile users: 4,921,587 Internet country code: .cl Other technical details Electricity: 220 volts AC, 50 Hz References Chile
Transport in Chile is mostly by road. The far south of the country is not directly connected to central Chile by road, and water transport also plays a part there. The railways were historically important in Chile, but now play a relatively small part in the country's transport system. Because of the country's geography and long distances between major cities, aviation is also important. Road transport Highways Total: 85,983 km Paved: 21,289 km Unpaved: 64,695 km (2020 est.) Chile Highway 5 Chile Highway 7 Chile Highway 9 Chile Highway 68 Chile Highway 181 Freeways 3,347 km (2020 est.)< Chile Freeway 6 Chile Freeway 8 Autopista del Sol Autopista del Itata Buses Buses are now the main means of long-distance transportation in Chile, following the decline of the rail network. The bus system covers the whole country, from Arica to Santiago (a 30-hour journey) and from Santiago to Punta Arenas (about 40 hours, with a change at Osorno). There are also international services to most other countries in South America. Longer-distance services are mostly on semi-cama (reclining seat) or cama (sleeper) buses, often double deck. Santiago began its public bus system Transantiago in 2007. Concepción's "Bio Bus" integrates with the electric train, Biotren, and is based on a dedicated right of way for buses. Railways total: 6,782 km broad gauge: 3,743 km gauge (1,653 km electrified) narrow gauge: 116 km gauge; 2,923 km (40 km electrified) (1995) 40 km (from Arica to Tacna, Peru) Not all lines connect. Chile's railways (except for a few dedicated industrial lines ) are operated by the state owned company Empresa de los Ferrocarriles del Estado (EFE), which completed a major investment programme in 2005. The rail system once served the entire country, running rail lines from Arica in the north to Puerto Montt in the south. Due partly to the nature of the terrain and evolution in transportation systems, rail travel has suffered greatly at the hands of bus and air competition. The train usually takes longer to reach a destination than a bus, and the comfort is comparable. Prices also tend to be uncompetitive. Rail freight transport has also suffered at the hands of the trucking industry and will continue to do so due to the immense leverage the truck driver's union can bring to bear if they were to feel threatened. The Ferrocarril de Antofagasta a Bolivia is a metre gauge railway in the north of the country. It was originally constructed in gauge. The northern rail line out of Santiago is now disused past the intersection with the Valparaíso line. Until there, it is used nearly exclusively for freight. Although the rest of the northern line is still in place, it is in a state of serious disrepair. The southern line runs as far as Puerto Montt and is electrified as far as the city of Temuco, from where diesel locomotives are used. Due to lack of budget and care, the 389 km Temuco to Puerto Montt section was abandoned in 1992 but after a $44m upgrade it has been back in use since 6 December 2005 with daily service between Victoria (north of Temuco) and Puerto Montt; today, however, only the service between Victoria and Temuco still operates. Work to build/restore(?) the South Trans-Andean Railway link between Zapala, Argentina and Lonquimay, Chile was underway in 2005. Possible break-of-gauge. Possible rack railway. Construction was undertaken by Patagonia Ferrocanal SA, formed and funded by the province. The first 7 km was completed by January 2006. Commuter rail lines in Santiago are planned to connect to Melipilla and Batuco. There have been repeated case studies regarding the installation of a high-speed line between the cities of Valparaíso and Santiago, some even considering maglev trains, but no serious action has ever been taken on the matter. Rail links with adjacent countries Bolivia - yes - same gauge - from Arica to La Paz, Bolivia Argentina - Central Trans-Andean Railway - abandoned 1984 – 100 km of mountain railway of gauge with rack railway sections - break of gauge / at either end. Concession planned to re-open line. Peru - yes - a single gauge connection between the northern Chilean city of Arica and Tacna in Southern Peru. Cities with Metros Santiago (Metro de Santiago) website Valparaíso (Valparaíso Metro) website Ports and merchant marine Ports Merchant marine total: 45 ships ( or over) totaling / ships by type: (1999 est.) Aviation Airports - with paved runways total: 62 over 3,047 m: 6 2,438 to 3,047 m: 6 1,524 to 2,437 m: 20 914 to 1,523 m: 20 under 914 m: 10 (1999 est.) Arturo Merino Benítez International Airport, located in Santiago, is Chile's largest aviation facility. Airports - with unpaved runways total: 310 over 3,047 m: 1 2,438 to 3,047 m: 4 1,524 to 2,437 m: 12 914 to 1,523 m: 68 under 914 m: 223 (1999 est.) National airlines LATAM Chile Sky Airline JetSmart Latin American Wings (defunct) Bridges Chacao Channel Chacao Channel bridge is a planned suspension bridge that was to link the island of Chiloé with mainland Chile crossing the Chacao Channel. It was one of the several projects that were planned to commemorate the Chile's bicentennial in 2010. If completed, it would have been the largest suspension bridge in South America. Pipelines crude oil 755 km petroleum products 780 km natural gas 320 km Mountain passes Cardenal Antonio Samoré Pass, Los Lagos Region, Route 215-CH Carirriñe Pass, Los Ríos Region Chungara–Tambo Quemado, Arica and Parinacota Region Paso de Jama, Antofagasta Region Huahum Pass, Los Ríos Region Icalma International Pass, Araucanía Region Paso Internacional Los Libertadores, Valparaíso Region Lilpela Pass, Los Ríos Region Paso de Los Patos, Valparaíso Region Mamuil Malal Pass, Araucanía Region Pino Hachado Pass, Araucanía Region San Francisco Pass, Atacama Region Uspallata Pass, Valparaíso Region See also Transantiago Empresa de los Ferrocarriles del Estado (EFE) Rail transport by country Notes References External links Empresa de los Ferrocarriles del Estado
The Chilean Armed Forces () is the unified military organization comprising the Chilean Army, Air Force, and Navy. The President of Chile is the commander-in-chief of the military, and formulates policy through the Minister of Defence. In recent years and after several major reequipment programs, the Chilean Armed Forces have become one of the most technologically advanced and professional armed forces in Latin America. The Chilean Army is mostly supplied with equipment from Germany, the United States, Brazil, Israel, France, and Spain. Structure Army The current commander-in-chief of the Chilean Army is General de Ejército Sr. Javier Iturriaga del Campo. The 46,350-person army is organized under six military administrative regions and six divisional headquarters. The forces include one special forces brigade, four armoured brigades, one armoured detachment, three motorized brigades, two motorized detachments, four mountain detachments and one aviation brigade. The army operates German Leopard 1 and 2 tanks as its main battle tanks, including 170+ Leopard 2A4 and 115 Leopard 1. The army has approximately 40,000 reservists. Navy Admiral Juan Andrés De La Maza Larraín directs the 19,800-person Chilean Navy, including 3,600 Marines. Of the fleet of 66 surface vessels, eight are major combatant ships and they are based in Valparaíso. The navy operates its own aircraft for transport and patrol; there are no fighters or bomber aircraft but they have attack helicopters. The Navy also operates four submarines based in Talcahuano. Air Force General Hugo Rodríguez González heads 11,050-strong Chilean Air Force. Air assets are distributed among five air brigades headquartered in Iquique, Antofagasta, Santiago, Puerto Montt, and Punta Arenas. The Air Force also operates an airbase on King George Island, Antarctica. See also Chilean Army order of battle Chilean Navy Chilean Air Force Citations References External links Ejército de Chile (Army) Armada de Chile website (Navy) Fuerza Aérea de Chile website (Air Force)
Since its return to democracy in 1990, Chile has been an active participant in the regional and international arena. Chile assumed a two-year non-permanent position on the UN Security Council in January 2003 and was re-elected to the council in October 2013. It is also an active member of the UN family of agencies, serving as a member of the Commission on Human Rights and participating in UN peacekeeping activities. Chile hosted the second Summit of the Americas in 1998, was the chair of the Rio Group in 2001, hosted the Defense Ministerial of the Americas in 2002, and the APEC summit and related meetings in 2004. In 2005 it hosted the Community of Democracies ministerial conference. It is an associate member of Mercosur and a full member of APEC. The OECD agreed to invite Chile to be among four countries to open discussions in becoming an official member. Diplomatic relations List of countries with which Chile maintains diplomatic relations with: Bilateral relations Africa Americas Asia Europe Oceania See also List of diplomatic missions in Chile List of diplomatic missions of Chile Visa requirements for Chilean citizens References Further reading Rodríguez Elizondo, José: Chile-Perú. El siglo que vivimos en peligro. La Tercera-Mondadori, Santiago, 2004 External links Ministry of Foreign Relations
The "National Anthem of Chile" (, ), also known as "" (; ) or by its incipit "" ('How pure, Chile, is your blue sky'), was adopted in 1828. It has a history of two lyrics and two melodies that made up three different versions. The current version was composed by Ramón Carnicer, with words by Eusebio Lillo, and has six parts plus the chorus. History First national anthem The first Chilean national anthem dates back to 1819, when the government called for, on 13 January, the creation of music and lyrics for this purpose. The composer Manuel Robles and the poet Bernardo de Vera y Pintado fulfilled this mandate and their "National Song" debuted on 20 August 1820 in the Domingo Arteaga theater, although other historians claim that it was played and sung during the festivities of September 1819. In the beginning, everyone would stand for the song. The custom of always singing it at the theater slowly disappeared, until it was requested that it only be sung at the anniversary of the country. The doctor Bernardo Vera, known in the history of the independence, was the author of the verses that were sung to Robles' music. This first hymn was sung until 1828, when it was replaced with what is sung today. Second national anthem The second and current Chilean national anthem was composed by the Spanish composer Ramón Carnicer, when he was exiled in England because of his liberal ideas. Mariano Egaña, Chilean Minister in London, acting on the criticism that Robles' song was receiving, asked Carnicer to compose a new hymn with Bernardo de Vera's original text. The Spanish musician probably wrote the work by 1827, the date he returned to Barcelona, and his hymn debuted in Santiago, in the Arteaga theater, 23 December 1828. Years later, in 1847, the Chilean government entrusted the young poet Eusebio Lillo with a new text that would replace the anti-Spain poem of Vera y Pintado, and after being analyzed by Andrés Bello, retained the original chorus ("Dulce patria, recibe los votos..."). The lyrics were slightly revised in 1909. During the military dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet, the Verse III was officially incorporated because of his praise of the armed forces and the national police (Carabineros). After the end of Pinochet's regime in 1990, it was only sung in military events. Supporters from the former military junta also sing the anthem with the Verse III in private ceremonies and rallies, with continuous controversies over the following years because of the crescent general consensus of the crimes against humanity committed by the regime. In the celebrations marking the return of democracy in 1990 at Santiago's Estadio Nacional Julio Martínez Prádanos, the anthem was played in its present melody, raised to F Major, which is the original melody of the second anthem by Carnicer, but using the 1847 lyrics as text, save for the original chorus of the 1819 anthem. This was the version that from 1991 to 2000 was played before broadcasts of Chilean presidential addresses. In 2000, it was replaced by a more stylized version, which was used until 2010. After that, the anthem was scrapped off the addresses. Since the end of the dictatorship, television stations rarely ever used the anthem during their sign-on and sign-off, and the practice fell off definitely during the 1990s. Radio stations in Chile still have a tradition to play the anthem in New Year's Eve, in order to start celebrations. Joe Walsh, famed musician who was part of the United States rock band the Eagles, sang the National Anthem of Chile at a Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim baseball game in 2003. There is also a translation in Mapudungun, the largest and most-commonly spoken indigenous language in Chile, spoken by the Mapuche people. Lyrics Official lyrics Below are the lyrics of the most played version; it corresponds to verse V of the full version and the chorus. Full lyrics According to Chilean Constitution [decree 260], only the fifth verse and the chorus are played officially as the National Anthem. 1973–1990 lyrics The following lyrics were used during the military regime in the country. Both the 5th and 3rd verses were used. Notes References External links Himno Nacional Nueva versión Chile - Canción Patriótica Nro. 2 (ca 1810) Chile: Himno Nacional de Chile - Audio of the national anthem of Chile, with information and lyrics (archive link) Decree 260 national anthem Sobre los verdaderos simbolos patrios de Chile simbolospatrios.cl Chile National Anthem, full lyric, MP3 format, vocal and instrumental Spanish-language songs Chile National symbols of Chile National anthems Oceanian anthems Compositions in C major 1847 in Chile
Demographic features of the population of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands include population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. CIA World Factbook demographic statistics The following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated. Population 596 Nationality noun: Cocos Islander(s) adjective: Cocos Islander Ethnic groups Europeans Cocos Malays Religions Sunni Islam 80% Other 20% Languages Malay (Cocos dialect) English See also Cocos (Keeling) Islands Cocos Malays References Cocos (Keeling) Islands
There are many modes of transport in Costa Rica but the country's infrastructure has suffered from a lack of maintenance and new investment. There is an extensive road system of more than 30,000 kilometers, although much of it is in disrepair; this also applies to ports, railways and water delivery systems. According to a 2016 U.S. government report, investment from China that attempted to improve the infrastructure found the "projects stalled by bureaucratic and legal concerns". Most parts of the country are accessible by road. The main highland cities in the country's Central Valley are connected by paved all-weather roads with the Atlantic and Pacific coasts and by the Pan American Highway with Nicaragua and Panama, the neighboring countries to the north and to the south Costa Rica's ports are struggling to keep pace with growing trade. They have insufficient capacity, and their equipment is in poor condition. The railroad didn't function for several years, until recent government effort to reactivate it for city transportation. An August 2016 OECD report provided this summary: "The road network is extensive but of poor quality, railways are in disrepair and only slowly being reactivated after having been shut down in the 1990s. Seaports’ quality and capacity are deficient. Internal transportation overly relies on private road vehicles as the public transport system, especially railways, is inadequate." Railways total: narrow gauge: of gauge ( electrified) Road transportation The road system in Costa Rica is not as developed as it might be expected for such a country. However, there are some two-lane trunk roads with restricted access under development. Total: Paved: Unpaved: National road network The Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MOPT), along with the National Road Council (Conavi), are the government organizations in charge of national road nomenclature and maintenance. There are three levels in the national road network: Primary roads: These are trunk roads devised to connect important cities, most of the national roads are connected to the capital city, San José. There are 19 national primary roads, numbered between 1 and 39. Secondary roads: These are roads that connect different cities, or primary routes, directly. There are 129 national secondary roads, numbered between 100 and 257. Tertiary roads: These roads connect main cities to villages or residential areas, there are 175 national tertiary roads, numbered between 301 and 935. Waterways , seasonally navigable by small craft Pipelines refined products Ports and harbors In 2016, the government pledged ₡93 million ($166,000) for a new cruise ship terminal for Puerto Limón. Atlantic Ocean Port of Moín, operated by JAPDEVA. Port of Limón, operated by JAPDEVA. Moín Container Terminal, operated by APM Terminals. Pacific Ocean Golfito Puerto Quepos Puntarenas (cruise ships only) Caldera Port Merchant marine total: 2 ships ( or over) / ships by type: passenger/cargo ships 2 Airports Total: 161 Airports - with paved runways total: 47 : 2 : 2 : 27 under : 16 Airports - with unpaved runways total: 114 : 18 under : 96 References
The Public Force of Costa Rica () is the Costa Rican national law enforcement force, which performs policing and border patrol functions. History On 1 December 1948, President José Figueres Ferrer of Costa Rica abolished the military of Costa Rica after achieving victory in the Costa Rican Civil War that year. In a ceremony in the , in the capital San José, Figueres broke a wall with a mallet symbolizing an end to Costa Rica's military services. In 1949, the abolition of the military was introduced in Article 12 of the Constitution of Costa Rica. The budget previously dedicated to the military is now dedicated to security, education and culture. Costa Rica maintains Police Guard forces. The museum was placed in the as a symbol of commitment to culture. In 1986, President Oscar Arias Sánchez declared December 1 as the (Military abolition day) with Law #8115. Unlike its neighbors, Costa Rica has not endured a civil war since 1948. Costa Rica maintains small forces capable of law enforcement, but has no permanent standing army. Public Force of the Ministry of Public Security (1996) In 1996, the Ministry of Public Security established the or Public Force, a gendarmerie which reorganised and eliminated the Civil Guard, Rural Assistance Guard, and Frontier Guards as separate entities. They are now under the Ministry and operate on a geographic command basis performing ground security, law enforcement, counter-narcotics, border patrol, and tourism security functions. The Costa Rica Coast Guard also operates directly under the Ministry. Outside the Fuerza Pública, there is a small Special Forces Unit, the Unidad Especial de Intervencion (UEI) or Special Intervention Unit, an elite commando force which trains with special forces from around the world, but is not part of the main police forces. Instead it is part of the Intelligence and Security Directorate (DIS) which reports directly to the Minister of the Presidency. About 70 members strong, it is organized along military lines, although officially a civilian police unit. The motto of the Public Force is "God, Fatherland, and Honour." Commissioner of Police Juan José Andrade Morales serves as its current Commissioner General. Ranks Equipment Small arms See also List of countries without armed forces References External links Fuerza Pública de Costa Rica. Ministerio de Seguridad Pública. El Espíritu del 48: Abolición del Ejército A brief history of the abolition of the military in Costa Rica. Law enforcement in Costa Rica Law of Costa Rica
Costa Rica is an active member of the international community and, in 1983, claimed it was for neutrality. Due to certain powerful constituencies favoring its methods, it has a weight in world affairs far beyond its size. The country lobbied aggressively for the establishment of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and became the first nation to recognize the jurisdiction of the Inter-American Human Rights Court, based in San José. The foreign affairs of the Republic of Costa Rica are a function of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Worship. History Costa Rica gained election as president of the Group of 77 in the United Nations in 1995. That term ended in 1997 with the South-South Conference held in San Jose. Costa Rica occupied a nonpermanent seat in the Security Council from 1997 to 1999 and exercised a leadership role in confronting crises in the Middle East and Africa, as well as in the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. It is currently a member of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. On Jan 1 2008 Costa Rica started its third year term on the Security Council. Costa Rica strongly backed efforts by the United States to implement UN Security Council Resolution 940, which led to the restoration of the democratically elected Government of Haiti in October 1994. Costa Rica was among the first to call for a postponement of the May 22 elections in Peru when international observer missions found electoral machinery not prepared for the vote count. Costa Rica is also a member of the International Criminal Court, without a Bilateral Immunity Agreement of protection for the US-military (as covered under Article 98). Costa Rica's relation to Central America In 1987, then President Óscar Arias authored a regional plan that served as the basis for the Esquipulas Peace Agreement and Arias was awarded the 1987 Nobel Peace Prize for his work. Arias also promoted change in the USSR-backed Nicaraguan government of the era. Costa Rica also hosted several rounds of negotiations between the Salvadoran Government and the Farabundo Martí National Liberation Front, aiding El Salvador's efforts to emerge from civil war and culminating in that country's 1994 free and fair elections. Costa Rica has been a strong proponent of regional arms-limitation agreements. Former President Miguel Ángel Rodríguez recently proposed the abolition of all Central American militaries and the creation of a regional counternarcotics police force in their stead. With the establishment of democratically elected governments in all Central American nations by the 1990s, Costa Rica turned its focus from regional conflicts to the pursuit of neoliberal policies on the isthmus. The influence of these policies, along with the US invasion of Panama, was instrumental in drawing Panama into the Central American model of neoliberalism. Costa Rica also participated in the multinational Partnership for Democracy and Development in Central America. Regional political integration has not proven attractive to Costa Rica. The country debated its role in the Central American integration process under former President Calderon. Costa Rica has sought concrete economic ties with its Central American neighbors rather than the establishment of regional political institutions, and it chose not to join the Central American Parliament. Costa Rica in the UN Costa Rica has been an active member of the United Nations since its inception at the San Francisco Conference in 1945. Its first ambassador to the United Nations was Fernando Soto Harrison, the secretary of governance under President Picado. Costa Rican Christiana Figueres was nominated for the post of UN secretary-general in July 2016. Diplomatic relations List of countries with which Costa Rica maintains diplomatic relations with: Bilateral relations See also List of diplomatic missions in Costa Rica List of diplomatic missions of Costa Rica Visa requirements for Costa Rican citizens Sources http://www.boston.com/news/world/asia/articles/2007/06/07/costa_rica_switches_allegiance_to_china_from_taiwan/ http://www.mea.gov.in/Portal/ForeignRelation/Costa_Rica-India_Bilateral-Jan_2013.pdf
Computational linguistics is an interdisciplinary field concerned with the computational modelling of natural language, as well as the study of appropriate computational approaches to linguistic questions. In general, computational linguistics draws upon linguistics, computer science, artificial intelligence, mathematics, logic, philosophy, cognitive science, cognitive psychology, psycholinguistics, anthropology and neuroscience, among others. Since the 2020s, computational linguistics has become a near-synonym of either natural language processing or language technology, with deep learning approaches, such as large language models, outperforming the specific approaches previously used in the field. Origins The field overlapped with artificial intelligence since the efforts in the United States in the 1950s to use computers to automatically translate texts from foreign languages, particularly Russian scientific journals, into English. Since rule-based approaches were able to make arithmetic (systematic) calculations much faster and more accurately than humans, it was expected that lexicon, morphology, syntax and semantics can be learned using explicit rules, as well. After the failure of rule-based approaches, David Hays coined the term in order to distinguish the field from AI and co-founded both the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL) and the International Committee on Computational Linguistics (ICCL) in the 1970s and 1980s. What started as an effort to translate between languages evolved into a much wider field of natural language processing. Annotated corpora In order to be able to meticulously study the English language, an annotated text corpus was much needed. The Penn Treebank was one of the most used corpora. It consisted of IBM computer manuals, transcribed telephone conversations, and other texts, together containing over 4.5 million words of American English, annotated using both part-of-speech tagging and syntactic bracketing. Japanese sentence corpora were analyzed and a pattern of log-normality was found in relation to sentence length. Modeling language acquisition The fact that during language acquisition, children are largely only exposed to positive evidence, meaning that the only evidence for what is a correct form is provided, and no evidence for what is not correct, was a limitation for the models at the time because the now available deep learning models were not available in late 1980s. It has been shown that languages can be learned with a combination of simple input presented incrementally as the child develops better memory and longer attention span, which explained the long period of language acquisition in human infants and children. Robots have been used to test linguistic theories. Enabled to learn as children might, models were created based on an affordance model in which mappings between actions, perceptions, and effects were created and linked to spoken words. Crucially, these robots were able to acquire functioning word-to-meaning mappings without needing grammatical structure. Using the Price equation and Pólya urn dynamics, researchers have created a system which not only predicts future linguistic evolution but also gives insight into the evolutionary history of modern-day languages. Chomsky's theories Attempts have been made to determine how an infant learns a "non-normal grammar" as theorized by Chomsky normal form without learning an "overgeneralized version" and "getting stuck". See also Artificial intelligence in fiction Collostructional analysis Computational lexicology Computational Linguistics (journal) Computational models of language acquisition Computational semantics Computational semiotics Computer-assisted reviewing Dialog systems Glottochronology Grammar induction Human speechome project Internet linguistics Lexicostatistics Natural language processing Natural language user interface Quantitative linguistics Semantic relatedness Semantometrics Systemic functional linguistics Translation memory Universal Networking Language References Further reading Steven Bird, Ewan Klein, and Edward Loper (2009). Natural Language Processing with Python. O'Reilly Media. . Daniel Jurafsky and James H. Martin (2008). Speech and Language Processing, 2nd edition. Pearson Prentice Hall. . Mohamed Zakaria KURDI (2016). Natural Language Processing and Computational Linguistics: speech, morphology, and syntax, Volume 1. ISTE-Wiley. . Mohamed Zakaria KURDI (2017). Natural Language Processing and Computational Linguistics: semantics, discourse, and applications, Volume 2. ISTE-Wiley. . External links Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL) ACL Anthology of research papers ACL Wiki for Computational Linguistics CICLing annual conferences on Computational Linguistics Computational Linguistics – Applications workshop Language Technology World Resources for Text, Speech and Language Processing The Research Group in Computational Linguistics Formal sciences Cognitive science Computational fields of study
Ivory Coast (Côte d'Ivoire) is a sub-Saharan nation in southern West Africa located at 8 00°N, 5 00°W. The country is approximately square in shape. Its southern border is a coastline on the Gulf of Guinea on the north Atlantic Ocean. On the other three sides it borders five other African nations for a total of : Liberia to the southwest for , Guinea to the northwest for , Mali to the north-northwest for , Burkina Faso to the north-northeast for , and Ghana to the east for . Ivory Coast comprises , of which is land and is water, which makes the country about the size of Germany. Maritime claims Ivory Coast makes maritime claims of as an exclusive economic zone, of territorial sea, and a continental shelf. Terrain and topography Ivory Coast's terrain can generally be described as a large plateau rising gradually from sea level in the south to almost elevation in the north. The nation's natural resources have made it into a comparatively prosperous nation in the African economy. The southeastern region of Ivory Coast is marked by coastal inland lagoons that starts at the Ghanaian border and stretch along the eastern half of the coast. The southern region, especially the southwest, is covered with dense tropical moist forest. The Eastern Guinean forests extend from the Sassandra River across the south-central and southeast portion of Ivory Coast and east into Ghana, while the Western Guinean lowland forests extend west from the Sassandra River into Liberia and southeastern Guinea. The mountains of Dix-Huit Montagnes region, in the west of the country near the border with Guinea and Liberia, are home to the Guinean montane forests. The Guinean forest-savanna mosaic belt extends across the middle of the country from east to west, and is the transition zone between the coastal forests and the interior savannas. The forest-savanna mosaic interlaces forest, savanna and grassland habitats. Northern Ivory Coast is part of the West Sudanian Savanna ecoregion of the Tropical and subtropical grasslands, savannas, and shrublands biome. It is a zone of lateritic or sandy soils, with vegetation decreasing from south to north. The terrain is mostly flat to undulating plain, with mountains in the northwest. The lowest elevation in Ivory Coast is at sea level on the coasts. The highest elevation is Mount Nimba, at in the far west of the country along the border with Guinea and Liberia. Rivers The Cavalla River drains the western border area of the Ivory Coast and eastern Liberia. It forms the southern two-thirds of the international boundary between Liberia and Côte d'Ivoire. The Sassandra River forms in the Guinea highlands and drains much of the western part of the Ivory Coast east of the Cavalla River. The Bandama River is the longest river in the Ivory Coast with a length of some draining the east central part of the country. In 1973 the Kossou Dam was constructed at Kossou on the Bandama creating Lake Kossou. The capital, Yamoussoukro, is located near the river south of the lake. The Komoé River originates on the Sikasso Plateau of Burkina Faso, and briefly follows the border between Burkina Faso and Ivory Coast before entering Ivory Coast. It drains the northeastern and easternmost portions of the country before emptying into the eastern end of the Ébrié Lagoon and ultimately the Gulf of Guinea in the Atlantic Ocean. Its waters contribute to the Comoé National Park. Climate The climate of Ivory Coast is generally warm and humid, ranging from equatorial in the southern coasts to tropical in the middle and semiarid in the far north. There are three seasons: warm and dry (November to March), hot and dry (March to May), and hot and wet (June to October). Temperatures average between and range from . Crops and natural resources Ivory Coast has a large timber industry due to its large forest coverage. The nation's hardwood exports match that of Brazil. In recent years there has been much concern about the rapid rate of deforestation. Rainforests are being destroyed at a rate sometimes cited as the highest in the world. The only forest left completely untouched in Ivory Coast is Taï National Park (Parc National de Taï), a area in the country's far southwest that is home to over 150 endemic species and many other endangered species such as the Pygmy hippopotamus and 11 species of monkeys. Nine percent of the country is arable land. Ivory Coast is the world's largest producer of cocoa, a major national cash crop. Other chief crops include coffee, bananas, and oil palms, which produce palm oil and kernels. Natural resources include petroleum, natural gas, diamonds, manganese, iron, cobalt, bauxite, copper, gold, nickel, tantalum, silica sand, clay, palm oil, and hydropower. Natural hazards Natural hazards include the heavy surf and the lack of natural harbors on the coast; during the rainy season torrential flooding is a danger. Extreme points Extreme points are the geographic points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location in the country. Northernmost point – the point at which the border with Mali enters the Bagoé River, Savanes District Southernmost point – Boubré, Bas-Sassandra District Easternmost point – unnamed location on the border with Ghana south-west of the town of Tambi, Zanzan District Westernmost point - unnamed location on the border with Liberia in the Nuon River west of Klobli, Montagnes District See also Subdivisions of Ivory Coast References This article uses information published in the World Almanac and Book of Facts (2006) as a reference.
The politics of Ivory Coast takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Ivory Coast is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the President and the Government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and parliament. The capital since 1983 is Yamoussoukro; however, Abidjan remains the commercial center. Most countries maintain their embassies in Abidjan. A civil war was fought in Ivory Coast between 2002–2004 and a second civil war broke out in March 2011 following contested elections that saw president-elect Alassane Ouattara come into power in 2011 and reelected in 2015. It is located in Africa. Civil war Troops, mostly hailing from the north of the country, mutinied in the early hours of 19 September 2002. They soon after launched attacks in many cities, including Abidjan. By lunchtime, they had control of the north of the country. Their principal claim relates to the definition of who is a citizen of Ivory Coast (and so who can stand for election as president), voting rights and their representation in government in Abidjan. The events in Abidjan shows that it is not a tribal issue, but a crisis of transition from a dictatorship to a democracy, with the clashes inherent in the definition of citizenship. Forces involved in the conflict include: Government forces, the National Army (FANCI), also called loyalists, formed and equipped essentially since 2003 The Young Patriots: nationalist groups aligned with President Laurent Gbagbo Mercenaries recruited by President Gbagbo: allegedly, Belarusians some former combatants of Liberia, including under-17 youths, forming the so-called "Lima militia" New Forces (Forces Nouvelles, FN), ex-northern rebels, who hold 60% of the country; their political expression is the Mouvement patriotique de Côte d'Ivoire, or MPCI French forces: troops sent within the framework of Opération Licorne and under UN mandate (United Nations Operation in Côte d'Ivoire), 3000 men in February 2003 and 4600 in November 2004; Soldiers of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), White helmets, also under the UN. Executive branch |President |Alassane Ouattara |Rally of the Republicans |4 December 2011 |- |Vice-President |Tiémoko Meyliet Koné |Independent |19 April 2022 |- |Prime Minister |position vacant |} Ivory Coast's 1959 constitution provides for strong presidency within the framework of a separation of powers. The executive is personified in the president, elected for a five-year term. The president is commander in chief of the armed forces, may negotiate and ratify certain treaties, and may submit a bill to a national referendum or to the National Assembly. According to the constitution, the President of the National Assembly assumes the presidency in the event of a vacancy, and he completes the remainder of the deceased president's term. The cabinet is selected by and is responsible to the president. Changes are being proposed to some of these provisions, to extend term of office to 7 years, establish a senate, and make president of the senate interim successor to the president. Laurent Gbagbo took power following a popular overthrow of the interim leader Gen. Robert Guéï who had claimed a dubious victory in presidential elections; Gen. Guéï himself had assumed power on 25 December 1999, following a military coup against the government of former President Henri Konan Bédié. Gbagbo was elected president in 2000 in an election boycotted by many oppositional forces. The president is elected by popular vote for a five-year term. The prime minister is appointed by the president. Alassane Ouattara is currently the president of Ivory Coast. He was reelected in the 2015 Ivorian presidential election. After a new constitution was approved by referendum, it is expected President Alassane Ouattara would appoint a Vice-President before 2020. The President and Vice-President will run on a joint ticket from 2020. They will be both elected for a five-year term, with only one possible reelection. The Vice-President will replace the President in case of death, resignation and any other vacancy. In November 2020, Alassane Ouattara won third term in office in elections boycotted by the opposition. His opponents argued it was illegal for president Ouattara to run for a third term. Legislative branch Parliament of Ivory Coast is a bicameral body composed by the National Assembly and the Senate of Ivory Coast. Prior to November 2016 and the future creation of the Senate, the Parliament of Ivory Coast was only composed of the National Assembly. The National Assembly (Assemblée Nationale) has 255 members, elected for a five-year term in single-seat constituencies. It passes on legislation typically introduced by the president although it also can introduce legislation. The Senate of Ivory Coast (Sénat) will have two-thirds of the senators indirectly elected and one-third appointed by the president-elect, elected for a five-year term in single-seat constituencies. Ivory Coast is a one party dominant state with the Rally of the Republicans in power. Judicial branch The judicial system culminates in the Supreme Court of Ivory Coast. The High Court of Justice is competent to try government officials for major offenses. The Supreme Court or Court Supreme consists of four chambers: Judicial Chamber for criminal cases, Audit Chamber for financial cases, Constitutional Chamber for judicial review cases, and Administrative Chamber for civil cases; there is no legal limit to the number of members. Political parties and elections Presidential elections Parliamentary elections Administrative divisions For administrative purposes, Ivory Coast is divided into 58 departments, each headed by a prefect appointed by the central government. There are 196 communes, each headed by an elected mayor, plus the city of Abidjan with ten mayors. The 58 departments (départements, singular - département) are listed in the article Departments of Ivory Coast. International organization participation ACP, AfDB, AU, ECA, ECOWAS, Entente, FAO, FZ, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICCt (signatory), ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, ITUC, MONUC, NAM, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WADB (regional), WAEMU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO References External links and references CIA World Factbook 2003
Ivory Coast invested remarkably in its transport system. Transport Infrastructures are much more developed than they are other West African countries despite a crisis that restrained their maintenance and development. Since its independence in 1960, Ivory Coast put an emphasis on increasing and modernizing the transport network for human as well as for goods. Major infrastructures of diverse nature were built including railways, roads, waterways, and airports. In spite of the crisis, neighbor countries (Burkina Faso, Mali, Niger, and Guinea) still strongly depend on the Ivorian transport network for importing, exporting, and transiting their immigrants to Ivory Coast. Rail transport The nation's railway system is part of a 1 260 km long route that links the country to Burkina Faso and Niger. 1 156 km of railroad links Abidjan to Ouagadougou, capital of Burkina Faso. Built during colonial era by the firm Abidjan-Niger (RAN), this railroad freed several landlocked countries among which were ex-Upper-Volta (Burkina Faso), Niger, and Mali. This railroad, operated by Sitarail, plays a key role as regards to the carriage of the goods (livestock) and the transport of people between Ivory Coast and border countries: 1 million tons of goods have transited in 2006. In 2005, despite the negative impact the crisis had on the sector, benefits engendered by transporting the goods and people via RAN, are estimated respectively at 16 309 et3 837billionCFA. As of 2004, the railway network consisted of a state-controlled 660 km section of a 1,146 km narrow gauge railroad that ran north from Abidjan through Bouaké and Ferkéssédougou to Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso. Road transport Ivory Coast road network spreads over 85 000 km consisting of 75 000 unpaved, 65 000 km, and 224 km highways. It provides national and international traffic with neighbor countries. The Trans–West African Coastal Highway provides a paved link to Ghana, Togo, Benin and Nigeria, with paved highways to landlocked Mali and Burkina Faso feeding into the coastal highway. When construction of roads and bridges in Liberia and Sierra Leone is complete, the highway will link to another seven Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) nations to the west and north-west. At the national level, vehicles are estimated at 600 000, which includes 75% of used cars (second hand) due to the low purchasing power since the beginning of the economic crisis. 20 000 new cars are registered every year. Although maintenance and renovations works are being carried out since middle-2011, over 80% of the Ivorian network is older than 20 years and therefore damaged. In addition, a significant traffic exists throughout Abidjan, the capital. This traffic is mainly composed of taxi, buses and mini-buses locally referred to as Gbaka. The country counts with two 4-laned motorways, the first one running from Abidjan to Yamoussoukro for a length of 224 km., and the second joining Abidjan to Grand-Bassam, with a length of 30 km. Both are built with modern technologies and under international standards of security. Maritime transport Landscape view of the Autonomous Port of Abidjan Ivory Coast greatly contributed to developing maritime transport by building two ports on its seaside namely, autonomous port of Abidjan, sometimes referred to as "lung of Ivorian economy", and the San-Pedro port. The total traffic in 2005, by adding importation to exportation, was 18 661 784 tons for autonomous port of Abidjan and 1 001 991 tons for San-Pedro. The autonomous port of Abidjan cover a 770 hectares area and shelters 60% of the country industries. It is the first tuna fishing port in Africa. It contains 36 conventional berths spread over six kilometers of quays providing a capacity of sixty commercial ships with multiple special docks, a container terminal as well as several specialized and industrial berths. The other major port, the San-Pedro port, operates since 1971 and has two quays covering 18,727 m2 area. Apart from those two major ports, there are also small ports at Sassandra, Aboisso, and Dabou. Air transport Ivory Coast has three international airports located in Abidjan, Yamoussoukro, and Bouaké. Fourteen smaller cities also possess regional airports, the most important of which are Daloa, Korhogo, Man, Odiénné and San-pédro. Twenty-seven aerodromes exists and are operated by a public establishment, the Anam (National agency for civil aviation and meteorology), except the activities carried out by the Asecna (Agency for security of air freight in Africa and Madagascar). Since the outbreak of the crisis, only five of these airports are available. These are Abidjan, San-Pédro, Yamoussoukro, Daloa, and Touba. Regarding the International Airport of Abidjan, official statistics from 2005, showed 14 257 commercial movements (departures and arrivals); 745 180 commercial passengers (arrivals, departures, and transit) and 12 552 tons of commercial fret. The Airport of Abidjan covers 90% of the air traffic of Côte d'Ivoire and generate 95% of the overall profits of the sector. The airport of Abidjan is operated by a private company, Aeria, created in association with the Commerce Chamber of Marseilles. Its traffic mainly encompasses European aeronautical companies (Air France, Brussels Airlines) and some African firms (South African Airways, Kenya Airways, Air Sénégal International). References
Transportation in Cuba is the system of railways, roads, airports, waterways, ports and harbours in Cuba: Railways total: 8,285 km standard gauge: 8,125 km gauge (105 km electrified) narrow gauge: 160 km of gauge. Cuba built the first railway system in the Spanish empire, before the 1848 start in the Iberian peninsula. While the rail infrastructure dates from colonial and early republican times, passenger service along the principal Havana to Santiago corridor is increasingly reliable and popular with tourists who can purchase tickets in Cuban convertible pesos. As with most public transport in Cuba, many of the vehicles used are second hand. With the order of 12 new Chinese locomotives in 2006, built specifically for Cuban Railways at China Northern Locomotives and Rolling Stock Works, services have been improving in reliability. Those benefiting the most are long-distance freight services with the French train Havana-Santiago being the only passenger train using one of the new Chinese locomotives regularly. In 2019, the Cuban railways received the first delivery of new Chinese-built coaches, and new services with these began in July 2019. Metro systems are not present in the island, although a suburban rail network exists in Havana. Urban tramways were in operation between 1858 and 1954, initially as horse-drawn systems. In the early 20th century electric trolley or storage battery powered tramways were introduced in seven cities. Of these overhead wire systems were adopted in Havana, Guanabacoa, Matanzas, Cienfuegos, Camagüey and Santiago de Cuba. Roads The total length of Cuba's highways is 60,858 km, including paved: 29,820 km (including 915 km of expressways) unpaved: 31,038 km (1999 est.) Expressways (autopistas) include: the Autopista Nacional (A1) from Havana to Santa Clara and Sancti Spiritus, with additional short sections near Santiago and Guantanamo the Autopista Este-Oeste (A4) from Havana to Pinar del Río the Autopista del Mediodia from Havana to San Antonio de los Baños an autopista from Havana to Melena del Sur an autopista from Havana to Mariel the Havana ring road (), which starts at a tunnel under the entrance to Havana Harbor the section of the Via Blanca from Matanzas to Varadero (toll road) an autopista from Nueva Gerona to Santa Fe, in the Isla de la Juventud Older roads include the Carretera Central, and the Via Blanca from Havana to Matanzas. Long-distance and inter-municipality buses in Cuba There are several national bus companies in Cuba. Viazul operates a fleet of modern and comfortable coaches on longer distance routes designed principally for tourists. Schedules, prices, and ticket booking can be done online, at any of the major international airports or National Terminals across Cuba. There are also other bus lines operated by tourism companies. AstroBus, a bus service in Cuban National Pesos, designed to bring comfortable air-conditioned coaches to Cuban locals at an affordable price. The AstroBus lines operate with modern Chinese Yutong buses, and are accessible to Cuban Residents of Cuba with their ID Card, and is payable in Cuba Pesos. Routes that have benefited most so far are those from Havana to each of the 13 provincial capitals of the country. Urban buses In Havana, urban transportation used to be provided by a colorful selection of buses imported from the Soviet Union or Canada. Many of these vehicles were second hand, such as the 1,500 decommissioned Dutch buses that the Netherlands donated to Cuba in the mid-1990s as well as GM fishbowl buses from Montreal. Despite the United States trade embargo, American-style yellow school buses (imported second-hand from Canada) are also increasingly common sights. Since 2008, service on seven key lines in and out of the city is provided by Chinese Zhengzhou Yutong Buses. These replaced the famous camellos ("camels" or "dromedaries", after their "humps") trailer buses that hauled as many as two hundred passengers in a passenger-carrying trailer. After the upgrading of Seville's public bus fleet to CNG-powered vehicles, many of the decommissioned ones were donated to the city of Havana. These bright orange buses still display the name of Transportes Urbanos de Sevilla, S.A.M., their former owner, and Seville's coat of arms as a sign of gratitude. As of 2016, urban transport in Havana consists entirely of modern Yutong diesel buses. Seville and Ikarus buses are gone. Automobiles Since 2009, Cuba has imported sedans from Chinese automaker Geely to serve as police cars, taxis and rental vehicles. Previously, the Soviet Union supplied Volgas, Moskvichs, and Ladas, as well as heavy trucks like the ZIL and the KrAZ; and Cuba also bought cars from European and Asian companies. In 2004, it was estimated that there were some 173,000 cars in Cuba. Old American cars in Cuba Most new vehicles came to Cuba from the United States until the 1960 United States embargo against Cuba ended importation of both cars and their parts. As many as 60,000 American vehicles are in use, nearly all in private hands. Of Cuba's vintage American cars, many have been modified with newer engines, disc brakes and other parts, often scavenged from Soviet cars, and most bear the marks of decades of use. Pre-1960 vehicles remain the property of their original owners and descendants, and can be sold to other Cubans providing the proper traspaso certificate is in place. However, the old American cars on the road today have "relatively high inefficiencies" due in large part to the lack of modern technology. This resulted in increased fuel consumption as well as adding to the economic plight of their owners. With these inefficiencies, noticeable drop in travel occurred from an "average of nearly 3000 km/year in the mid-1980s to less than 800 km/year in 2000–2001". As the Cuban people try to save as much money as possible, when traveling is done, the cars are usually loaded past the maximum allowable weight and travel on the decaying roads, resulting in even more abuse to the already under-maintained vehicles. Hitchhiking and carpooling As a result of the "Special Period" in 1991 (a period of food and energy shortages caused by the loss of the Soviet Union as a trading partner), hitchhiking and carpooling became important parts of Cuba's transportation system and society in general. In 1999, an article in Time magazine claimed "In Cuba[...] hitchhiking is custom. Hitchhiking is essential. Hitchhiking is what makes Cuba move." Changes in the 2000s For many years, Cubans could only acquire new cars with special permission. In 2011, the Cuban government legalized the purchase and sale of used post-1959 autos. In December 2013, Cubans were allowed to buy new cars from state-run dealerships - previously this had not been permitted. In 2020, this was further extended with cars being sold in convertible currencies. Waterways Cauto River Sagua la Grande River Ports and harbors Cienfuegos Havana Manzanillo Mariel Matanzas Nuevitas Santiago de Cuba Merchant marine Total: 3 ships Ships by type Cargo ships (1) Passenger ship (1) Refrigerated cargo ships (1) Registered in other countries: 5 Airlines Besides the state owned airline Cubana (Cubana de Aviación), only Aerogavitoa operates flights to and within cuba. Airports Total: 133 Airports with paved runways total: 64 over 3,047 m: 7 2,438 to 3,047 m: 10 1,524 to 2,437 m: 16 914 to 1,523 m: 4 under 914 m: 27 Airports with unpaved runways total: 69 914 to 1,523 m: 11 under 914 m: 58 See also Infrastructure of Cuba Trailer bus Transit bus Gallery References External links Cubana Airlines Aero-Caribbean Aero-Gaviota Viazul long distance coaches Information on train travel in Cuba Photos of antique Cuban cars Blog entry about antique Cuban cars Bus and train timetable Hershey Electric Railroad Steam Railway Photographs - Cuba
Because Cyprus no longer has a working railway system, various other methods of transport are needed to ensure the proper delivery of any cargo, be it human or freight. Since the last railway was dismantled in 1952, the only remaining modes of transport are by road, by sea, and by air. Roads From the of roads in the areas controlled by the Republic of Cyprus in 2006, were paved, while were unpaved. In 1996, the Turkish Cypriot area showed a close, but smaller ratio of paved to unpaved with about out of paved and unpaved. As a legacy of British rule, Cyprus is one of only three EU nations in which vehicles drive on the left. Motorways A1 Nicosia to Limassol A2 connects A1 near Pera Chorio with A3 by Larnaca A3 Larnaca Airport to Agia Napa, also serves as a circular road for Larnaca. A5 connects A1 near Kofinou with A3 by Larnaca A6 Pafos to Limassol A7 Pafos to Polis (final plans) A9 Nicosia to Astromeritis A22 Dali industrial area to Anthoupolis, Lakatamia (Nicosia 3rd ring road, final plans) Public Transportation Nicosia's residents rely on private cars to go around the city. With more than 629 automobiles per 1,000 people, Cyprus has one of the highest car ownership rates in the world, yet the country uses very little green transportation. Only 3% of journeys in the Greater Nicosia urban region are made by public transportation. Cycling is considerably less common—2%. The government of Cyprus and authorities of Nicosia have developed a public transportation plan to ensure access to more areas and provide more options, apart from private cars. Public Transportation Companies In Cyprus, public transportation by bus is run by different companies based on the district. Nicosia and Larnaca: NPT (Nicosia Public Transport) and LPT (Larnaca Public Transport), operated by Cyprus Public Transport (CPT) Limassol: EMEL (Transport Company for Limassol Commuters) Paphos: OSYPA (Paphos Transport Organisation) Famagusta: OSEA (Famagusta District Transport Organisation) INTERCITY BUSES: Services transport between all major cities Public Buses In 2006, extensive plans were announced to improve and expand bus services and restructure public transport throughout Cyprus, with the financial backing of the European Union Development Bank. In 2010, the new revised and expanded bus network was implemented into the system. In 2020, the transport companies for the districts of Nicosia and Larnaca were changed from OSEL (Nicosia District Transport Organisation) to NPT (Nicosia Public Transport) and from ZENON Larnaca Buses to LPT (Larnaca Public Transport) respectively. In 2022, Cyprus Public Transport made new plans for Nicosia's Public Transport by changing route numbers, adding new bus hubs and modernising buses and the all-out feel of the transport system. The plan has been introduced in two phases and is currently completed. Licensed vehicles Road transport is the dominant form of transport on the island. Figures released by the International Road Federation in 2007 show that Cyprus holds the highest car ownership rate in the world with 742 cars per 1,000 people. Public transport in Cyprus is limited to privately run bus services (except in Nicosia and Larnaca), taxis, and interurban 'shared' taxi services (locally referred to as service taxis). Thus, private car ownership in the country is the fifth highest per capita in the world. However, in 2006 extensive plans were announced to expand and improve bus services and restructure public transport throughout Cyprus, with the financial backing of the European Union Development Bank Sea Harbours and Ports The ports of Cyprus are operated and maintained by the Cyprus Ports Authority. Major harbours of the island are Limassol Harbour, and Larnaca Harbour, which service cargo, passenger, and cruise ships. Limassol is the larger of the two, and handles a large volume of both cargo and cruise vessels. Larnaca is primarily a cargo port but played a big part in the evacuation of foreign nationals from Lebanon in 2006, and in the subsequent humanitarian aid effort. A smaller cargo dock also exists at Vasilikos, near Zygi (a small town between Larnaca and Limassol). Smaller vessels and private yachts can dock at Marinas in Cyprus. Public Bicycle Sharing System Nextbike is the latest transportation system in Cyprus, similar to programs employed successfully in various cities around the world. Bicycles can be found at stations in Nicosia and Limassol, as well as with 1 station in Larnaca. Merchant Marine See full article on Cyprus Merchant Marine Total: 1,414 ships (with a volume of or over) totaling / Ships by Type: barge carrier 2, bulk carrier 442, cargo ship 495, chemical tanker 22, combination bulk 40, combination ore/oil 8, container ship 144, Liquified Gas Carrier 6, passenger ship 8, petroleum tanker 142, refrigerated cargo 41, roll-on/roll-off 45, short-sea passenger 13, specialized tanker 4, vehicle carrier 2 (1999 est.) Airports In 1999, Cyprus had 12 airports with paved runways. Of them, seven had runways of lengths between 2,438 and 3,047 metres, one had a length between 1,524 and 2,437 metres, three had lengths between 914 and 1524 metres, and one had a length less than 914 metres. Of the three airports with unpaved runways, two had lengths less than 914 metres and one had a length between 914 and 1524 metres. International Airports Larnaca International Airport is the island's main airport and flies to many locations worldwide. Paphos International Airport is the 2nd largest airport and mostly flies to Europe, via Ryanair; with occasional flights to other continents. Nicosia International Airport is an abandoned airport. It used to be the island's main airport until 1974. It remains closed to the public. Ercan International Airport is the main airport in the de facto state of Northern Cyprus. The airport's only destination is Turkey, serviced only by Turkish airlines (not to be confused with the company). Flights to and from Ercan Airport are illegal. References External links
Cyprus is a member of the United Nations along with most of its agencies as well as the Commonwealth of Nations, World Bank, International Monetary Fund and Council of Europe. In addition, the country has signed the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency Agreement (MIGA). Cyprus has been a member of the European Union since 2004 and in the second half of the 2012 it held the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Historical non-alignment Cyprus has historically followed a non-aligned foreign policy, although it increasingly identifies with the West in its cultural affinities and trade patterns, and maintains close relations with the European Union, Greece, Armenia, Lebanon, and Russia. The prime originator of Cypriot non-alignment was Archbishop of Cyprus Makarios III, the first President (1960–1977) of the independent republic of Cyprus. Prior to independence, Makarios - by virtue of his post as Archbishop of Cyprus and head of the Cypriot Orthodox Church - was the Greek Cypriot Ethnarch, or de facto leader of the community. A highly influential figure well before independence, he participated in the 1955 Bandung Conference. After independence, Makarios took part in the 1961 founding meeting of the Non-Aligned Movement in Belgrade. Reasons for this neutrality may lie in the extreme pressures exerted on the infant Republic by its larger neighbours, Turkey and Greece. Intercommunal rivalries and movements for union with Greece or partial union with Turkey may have persuaded Makarios to steer clear of close affiliation with either side. In any case Cyprus became a high-profile member of the Non-Aligned Movement and retained its membership until its entry into the European Union in 2004. At the non-governmental level, Cyprus has also been a member of the popular extension of the Non-Aligned Movement, the Afro-Asian Peoples' Solidarity Organisation hosting several high-level meetings. Immediately after the 1974 Greek-sponsored coup d'état and the Turkish invasion, Makarios secured international recognition of his administration as the legitimate government of the whole island. This was disputed only by Turkey, which currently recognizes only the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, established in 1983. Since the 1974 crisis, the chief aim of the foreign policy of the Republic of Cyprus has been to secure the withdrawal of Turkish forces and the reunification of the island under the most favorable constitutional and territorial settlement possible. This campaign has been pursued primarily through international forums such as the United Nations and the Non-Aligned Movement, and in recent years through the European Union. Diplomatic relations List of countries with which Cyprus maintains diplomatic relations: Bilateral relations Multilateral Africa Americas Asia Europe Cyprus' 1990 application for full EU membership caused a storm in the Turkish Cypriot community, which argued that the move required their consent. Following the December 1997 EU Summit decisions on EU enlargement, accession negotiations began 31 March 1998. Cyprus joined the European Union on 1 May 2004. To fulfil its commitment as a member of the European Union, Cyprus withdrew from the Non-Aligned Movement on accession, retaining observer status. Oceania Multilateral relations Cyprus–NATO relations Overview The Republic of Cyprus maintains diplomatic relations with 179 states (including the Holy See and Palestinian National Authority) and is United Nations, Union for the Mediterranean and European Union full member. It does not maintain diplomatic relations with: Azerbaijan, Kosovo, Benin, Republic of Congo, Central African Republic, Equatorial Guinea, Djibouti, South Sudan Bhutan Kiribati, Palau, Tuvalu Haiti, Saint Kitts and Nevis Cook Islands, Niue The Republic of Cyprus is not recognised by Turkey. International disputes The 1974 invasion of the Turkish army divided the island nation into two. The internationally recognised Republic of Cyprus currently has effective control in the south of the island (59% of the island's land area) while its area not under its effective control makes up 37% of the island. Turkey utilising the territory occupied during the invasion recognizes a declared separatist UDI of Turkish Cypriots in 1983, contrary to multiple United Nations Security Council Resolutions. The two territories of the Republic are separated by a United Nations Buffer Zone (4% of the island); there are two UK sovereign base areas mostly within the Greek Cypriot portion of the island. See also List of diplomatic missions of Cyprus List of diplomatic missions in Cyprus List of ministers of foreign affairs of Cyprus Foreign relations of Northern Cyprus References External links Cyprus and the Commonwealth of Nations
Columbus is a Latinized version of the Italian surname "Colombo". It most commonly refers to: Christopher Columbus (1451–1506), the Italian explorer Columbus, Ohio, the capital city of the U.S. state of Ohio Columbus, Georgia, the 2nd-largest city in the U.S. State of Georgia Columbus may also refer to: Places Extraterrestrial Columbus (crater), a crater on Mars Columbus (ISS module), the European module for the International Space Station Columbus (spacecraft), a program to develop a European space station 1986–1991 Italy Columbus (Rome), a residential district United States Columbus, Arkansas Columbus, Georgia, the 119th-largest city in the United States, and the 2nd-largest in Georgia after Atlanta Columbus, Illinois Columbus, Indiana, known for modern architecture Columbus, Kansas Columbus, Kentucky Columbus, Minnesota Columbus, Mississippi Columbus, Missouri Columbus, Montana Columbus, Nebraska Columbus, New Jersey Columbus, New Mexico Columbus, New York Columbus, North Carolina Columbus, North Dakota Columbus, Ohio, the largest city in the United States with this name Columbus, Texas Columbus, Wisconsin Columbus (town), Wisconsin Columbus Avenue (disambiguation) Columbus Circle, a traffic circle in Manhattan, New York Columbus City (disambiguation) Columbus Township (disambiguation) Persons with the name Forename Columbus Caldwell (1830–1908), American politician Columbus Germain (1827–1880), American politician Columbus Short (born 1982), American choreographer and actor Surname Bartholomew Columbus (c. 1461–1515), Christopher Columbus's younger brother Chris Columbus (filmmaker) (born 1958), American filmmaker Diego Columbus (1479/80–1526), Christopher Columbus' eldest son Ferdinand Columbus (1488–1539), Christopher Columbus' second son Scott Columbus (1956–2011), long-time drummer for the heavy metal band Manowar Arts, entertainment, and media Films Columbus (2015 film), an Indian comedy, subtitled "Discovering Love" Columbus (2017 film), an American drama set amidst the architecture of Columbus, Indiana Columbus (Star Trek), a shuttlecraft in the Star Trek series Music Opera Columbus (Egk), German-language opera by Egk, 1943 Columbus, 1855 opera by František Škroup Christophe Colomb, French-language opera by Milhaud often referred to as Columbus in English sources Other uses in music Columbus (Herzogenberg), large scale cantata by Heinrich von Herzogenberg 1870 "Colombus", song by Mary Black from No Frontiers "Columbus" (song), a song by the band Kent from their album Tillbaka till samtiden Christopher Columbus, pastiche of music by Offenbach to a new English libretto by Don White recorded by the Opera Rara label in 1977 Other uses in arts, entertainment, and media Columbus (novel), a 1941 novel about Christopher Columbus by Rafael Sabatini Columbus (Bartholdi), a statue depicting Christopher Columbus by Frédéric Auguste Bartholdi, in Providence, Rhode Island, US Columbus Edwards, the character known as Lum of Lum and Abner Brands and enterprises COLUMBUS, ab initio quantum chemistry software ColumBus, former name of Howard Transit in Howard County, Maryland Columbus Communications, a cable television and broadband speed Internet service provider in the Caribbean region Columbus Salame, an American food processing company Columbus Tubing, an Italian manufacturer of bicycle frame tubing Columbus Buggy Company, an American automotive manufacturer from 1875 to 1913 Ships Columbus (1824), a disposable ship built to transport lumber from North America to Britain MS Columbus, a cruise ship owned by Plantours & Partner GmbH MV Columbus, a cruise ship owned by Seajets SS Christopher Columbus, Great Lakes excursion liner (1893–1933) SS City of Columbus, a passenger steamer that sailed from Boston to Savannah and sank off Martha's Vineyard in 1884 SS Columbus (1873), an American merchantman converted in 1878 into the Russian cruiser Asia SS Columbus (1924), a transatlantic ocean liner for the North German Lloyd steamship line USS Columbus, various ships of the US Navy Other uses Columbus hops, a variety of hops Generation of Columbuses, a generation of Poles born ca. 1920, who had to fight twenty years later Columbus (shopping centre), a shopping centre in Vuosaari, Helsinki, Finland See also Christopher Columbus (disambiguation) Columbus City Hall (disambiguation) Columba Columbia (disambiguation) Columbus Day List of places named for Christopher Columbus
British science fiction writer Arthur C. Clarke formulated three adages that are known as Clarke's three laws, of which the third law is the best known and most widely cited. They are part of his ideas in his extensive writings about the future. The laws The laws are: When a distinguished but elderly scientist states that something is possible, he is almost certainly right. When he states that something is impossible, he is very probably wrong. The only way of discovering the limits of the possible is to venture a little way past them into the impossible. Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic. Origins One account stated that Clarke's laws were developed after the editor of his works in French started numbering the author's assertions. All three laws appear in Clarke's essay "Hazards of Prophecy: The Failure of Imagination", first published in Profiles of the Future (1962); however, they were not all published at the same time. Clarke's first law was proposed in the 1962 edition of the essay, as "Clarke's Law" in Profiles of the Future. The second law is offered as a simple observation in the same essay but its status as Clarke's second law was conferred by others. It was initially a derivative of the first law and formally became Clarke's second law where the author proposed the third law in the 1973 revision of Profiles of the Future, which included an acknowledgement. It was also here that Clarke wrote about the third law in these words: "As three laws were good enough for Newton, I have modestly decided to stop there". The third law is the best known and most widely cited. It was published in a 1968 letter to Science magazine and eventually added to the 1973 revision of the "Hazards of Prophecy" essay. In 1952, Isaac Asimov in his book Foundation and Empire (part 1.1 Search for Magicians) wrote down a similar phrase "... an uninformed public tends to confuse scholarship with magicians..." It also echoes a statement in a 1942 story by Leigh Brackett: "Witchcraft to the ignorant, ... simple science to the learned". Even earlier examples of this sentiment may be found in Wild Talents (1932) by Charles Fort: "...a performance that may someday be considered understandable, but that, in these primitive times, so transcends what is said to be the known that it is what I mean by magic," and in the short story The Hound of Death (1933) by Agatha Christie: "The supernatural is only the nature of which the laws are not yet understood." Virginia Woolf's 1928 novel Orlando: A Biography explicitly compares advanced technology to magic: Clarke gave an example of the third law when he said that while he "would have believed anyone who told him back in 1962 that there would one day exist a book-sized object capable of holding the content of an entire library, he would never have accepted that the same device could find a page or word in a second and then convert it into any typeface and size from Albertus Extra Bold to Zurich Calligraphic", referring to his memory of "seeing and hearing Linotype machines which slowly converted 'molten lead into front pages that required two men to lift them'". Variants of the third law The third law has inspired many snowclones and other variations: Any sufficiently advanced extraterrestrial intelligence is indistinguishable from God. (Shermer's last law) Any sufficiently advanced act of benevolence is indistinguishable from malevolence (referring to artificial intelligence) Any sufficiently advanced incompetence is indistinguishable from malice (Grey's law) Corollaries Isaac Asimov's Corollary to Clarke's First Law: "When, however, the lay public rallies round an idea that is denounced by distinguished but elderly scientists and supports that idea with great fervour and emotion – the distinguished but elderly scientists are then, after all, probably right." A contrapositive of the third law is "Any technology distinguishable from magic is insufficiently advanced." (Gehm's corollary) See also Asimov's References External links The origins of the Three Laws "What's Your Law?" (lists some of the corollaries) "A Gadget Too Far" at Infinity Plus Adages Arthur C. Clarke Technology folklore Technology forecasting Principles
Cow is a colloquial term for cattle, and the name of female cattle. Cow, cows or COW may also refer to: Science and technology Cow, an adult female of several animals AT2018cow, a large astronomical explosion also known as "The Cow" Distillation cow, a piece of glassware that allows fractions to be collected without breaking vacuum Cell on wheels, a means of providing temporary mobile phone network coverage Copy-on-write, in computing Literature Al-Baqara, the second and longest sura of the Qur'an, usually translated as "The Cow" Cows, a 1998 novel by Matthew Stokoe Cow, the English translation of Beat Sterchi's novel Blösch "Cows!", a children's story from the Railway Series book Edward the Blue Engine by the Reverend Wilbert Awdry "Cows", a poem from The Wiggles' album Big Red Car Film and television The Cow (1969 film), an Iranian film The Cow (1989 film), a Soviet animated short Cow (2009 film), a Chinese film Cow (2021 film), a British documentary film Cow (public service announcement), an anti texting while driving public service announcement Cows (TV series), a pilot and cancelled television sitcom produced by Eddie Izzard for Channel 4 in 1997 Cow, a character in the animated series Cow and Chicken Computer Originated World, referring to the globe ID the BBC1 TV network used from 1985 to 1991 Music Cows (band), a noise rock band from Minneapolis Cow (demo), a 1987 EP by Inspiral Carpets "Cows", a song by Grandaddy from their 1992 album Prepare to Bawl Other uses Cerritos On Wheels, municipal bus service operated by the City of Cerritos, California, United States College of Wooster, liberal arts college in Wooster, Ohio, United States Cow Hell Swamp, Georgia, United States Crude oil washing Cows (ice cream), a Canadian ice cream brand Cowdenbeath railway station, Scotland, National Rail station code Cow, part of a cow-calf railroad locomotive set COWS, a mnemonic for Cold Opposite, Warm Same in the caloric reflex test See also Vacas (English: Cows), a 1991 Spanish film Kráva (English: The Cow), a 1994 Czech film by Karel Kachyňa Sacred cow (disambiguation) Cow Run (disambiguation) Cowes Kow (disambiguation)
Centime (from ) is French for "cent", and is used in English as the name of the fraction currency in several Francophone countries (including Switzerland, Algeria, Belgium, Morocco and France). In France, the usage of centime goes back to the introduction of the decimal monetary system under Napoleon. This system aimed at replacing non-decimal fractions of older coins. A five-centime coin was known as a sou, i.e. a solidus or shilling. In Francophone Canada of a Canadian dollar is officially known as a cent (pronounced /sɛnt/) in both English and French. However, in practice, the form of cenne (pronounced /sɛn/) has completely replaced the official cent. Spoken and written use of the official form cent in Francophone Canada is exceptionally uncommon. In the Canadian French vernacular sou, sou noir ( means "black" in French), cenne, and cenne noire are all widely known, used, and accepted monikers when referring to either of a Canadian dollar or the 1¢ coin (colloquially known as a "penny" in North American English). Subdivision of euro: cent or centime? In the European community, cent is the official name for one hundredth of a euro. However, in French-speaking countries, the word centime is the preferred term. The Superior Council of the French language of Belgium recommended in 2001 the use of centime, since cent is also the French word for "hundred". An analogous decision was published in the Journal officiel in France (2 December 1997). In Morocco, dirhams are divided into 100 centimes and one may find prices in the country quoted in centimes rather than in dirhams. Sometimes centimes are known as francs or, in former Spanish areas, pesetas. Usage A centime is one-hundredth of the following basic monetary units: Current Algerian dinar Burundian franc CFP franc CFA franc Comorian franc Congolese franc Djiboutian franc Ethiopian birr (as santim) Guinean franc Haitian gourde Moroccan dirham Rwandan franc Swiss franc (by French and English speakers only; Italian speakers use centesimo. See Rappen) Obsolete Algerian franc Belgian franc (Dutch: ) Cambodian franc French Camerounian franc French Guianan franc French franc Guadeloupe franc Katangese franc Latvian lats (Latvian: santīms) Luxembourgish franc Malagasy franc Malian franc Martinique franc Monegasque franc Moroccan franc New Hebrides franc Réunion franc Spanish Peseta Tunisian franc Westphalian frank References Marianne (personification)
Generally speaking, a calendar year begins on the New Year's Day of the given calendar system and ends on the day before the following New Year's Day, and thus consists of a whole number of days. A year can also be measured by starting on any other named day of the calendar, and ending on the day before this named day in the following year. This may be termed a "year's time", but not a "calendar year". To reconcile the calendar year with the astronomical cycle (which has a fractional number of days) certain years contain extra days ("leap days" or "intercalary days"). The Gregorian year, which is in use in most of the world, begins on January 1 and ends on December 31. It has a length of 365 days in an ordinary year, with 8760 hours, 525,600 minutes, or 31,536,000 seconds; but 366 days in a leap year, with 8784 hours, 527,040 minutes, or 31,622,400 seconds. With 97 leap years every 400 years, the year has an average length of 365.2425 days. Other formula-based calendars can have lengths which are further out of step with the solar cycle: for example, the Julian calendar has an average length of 365.25 days, and the Hebrew calendar has an average length of 365.2468 days. The Lunar Hijri calendar is a lunar calendar consisting of 12 months in a year of 354 or 355 days. The astronomer's mean tropical year, which is averaged over equinoxes and solstices, is currently 365.24219 days, slightly shorter than the average length of the year in most calendars. Quarters The calendar year can be divided into four quarters, often abbreviated as Q1, Q2, Q3, and Q4. In the Gregorian calendar: First quarter, Q1: 1 January – 31 March (90 days or 91 days in leap years) Second quarter, Q2: 1 April – 30 June (91 days) Third quarter, Q3: 1 July – 30 September (92 days) Fourth quarter, Q4: 1 October – 31 December (92 days) While in the Chinese calendar, the quarters are traditionally associated with the 4 seasons of the year: Spring: 1st to 3rd month Summer: 4th to 6th month Autumn: 7th to 9th month Winter: 10th to 12th month See also Academic term Calendar reform Common year Fiscal year ISO 8601 ISO week date Leap year Model year Tropical year Seasonal year References Year Units of time Types of year
The Christian Social Union in Bavaria (German: , CSU) is a Christian democratic and conservative political party in Germany. Having a regionalist identity, the CSU operates only in Bavaria while its larger counterpart, the Christian Democratic Union (CDU), operates in the other fifteen states of Germany. It differs from the CDU by being somewhat more conservative in social matters, following Catholic social teaching. The CSU is considered the de facto successor of the Weimar-era Catholic Bavarian People's Party. At the federal level, the CSU forms a common faction in the Bundestag with the CDU which is frequently referred to as the Union Faction (die Unionsfraktion) or simply CDU/CSU. The CSU has 45 seats in the Bundestag since the 2021 federal election, making it currently the second smallest of the seven parties represented. The CSU is a member of the European People's Party and the International Democrat Union. Party leader Markus Söder serves as Minister-President of Bavaria, a position that CSU representatives have held from 1946 to 1954 and again since 1957. History Franz Josef Strauß (1915–1988) had left behind the strongest legacy as a leader of the party, having led the party from 1961 until his death in 1988. His political career in the federal cabinet was unique in that he had served in four ministerial posts in the years between 1953 and 1969. From 1978 until his death in 1988, Strauß served as the Minister-President of Bavaria. Strauß was the first leader of the CSU to be a candidate for the German chancellery in 1980. In the 1980 federal election, Strauß ran against the incumbent Helmut Schmidt of the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD) but lost thereafter as the SPD and the Free Democratic Party (FDP) managed to secure an absolute majority together, forming a social-liberal coalition. The CSU has led the Bavarian state government since it came into existence in 1946, save from 1954 to 1957 when the SPD formed a state government in coalition with the Bavaria Party and the state branches of the GB/BHE and FDP. Initially, the separatist Bavaria Party (BP) successfully competed for the same electorate as the CSU, as both parties saw and presented themselves as successors to the BVP. The CSU was ultimately able to win this power struggle for itself. Among other things, the BP was involved in the "casino affair" under dubious circumstances by the CSU at the end of the 1950s and lost considerable prestige and votes. In the 1966 state election, the BP finally left the state parliament. Before the 2008 elections in Bavaria, the CSU perennially achieved absolute majorities at the state level by itself. This level of dominance is unique among Germany's 16 states. Edmund Stoiber took over the CSU leadership in 1999. He ran for Chancellor of Germany in 2002, but his preferred CDU/CSU–FDP coalition lost against the SPD candidate Gerhard Schröder's SPD–Green alliance. In the 2003 Bavarian state election, the CSU won 60.7% of the vote and 124 of 180 seats in the state parliament. This was the first time any party had won a two-thirds majority in a German state parliament. The Economist later suggested that this exceptional result was due to a backlash against Schröder's government in Berlin. The CSU's popularity declined in subsequent years. Stoiber stepped down from the posts of Minister-President and CSU chairman in September 2007. A year later, the CSU lost its majority in the 2008 Bavarian state election, with its vote share dropping from 60.7% to 43.4%. The CSU remained in power by forming a coalition with the FDP. In the 2009 general election, the CSU received only 42.5% of the vote in Bavaria in the 2009 election, which by then constituted its weakest showing in the party's history. The CSU made gains in the 2013 Bavarian state election and the 2013 federal election, which were held a week apart in September 2013. The CSU regained their majority in the Bavarian Landtag and remained in government in Berlin. They had three ministers in the Fourth Merkel cabinet, namely Horst Seehofer (Minister of the Interior, Building and Community), Andreas Scheuer (Minister of Transport and Digital Infrastructure) and Gerd Müller (Minister for Economic Cooperation and Development). The 2018 Bavarian state election yielded the worst result for the CSU in the state elections (top candidate Markus Söder) since 1950 with 37.2% of votes, a decline of over ten percentage points compared to the last result in 2013. After that, the CSU had to form a new coalition government with the minor partner Free Voters of Bavaria. The 2021 German federal election saw the worst election result ever for the Union. The CSU also had a weak showing with 5.2% of votes nationally and 31.7% of the total in Bavaria. Relationship with the CDU The CSU is the sister party of the Christian Democratic Union (CDU). Together, they are called the Union. The CSU operates only within Bavaria, and the CDU operates in all states other than Bavaria. While virtually independent, at the federal level the parties form a common CDU/CSU faction. No Chancellor has ever come from the CSU, although Strauß and Edmund Stoiber were CDU/CSU candidates for Chancellor in the 1980 federal election and the 2002 federal election, respectively, which were both won by the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD). Below the federal level, the parties are entirely independent. Since its formation, the CSU has been more conservative than the CDU. CSU and the state of Bavaria decided not to sign the Grundgesetz of the Federal Republic of Germany as they could not agree with the division of Germany into two states after World War II. Although Bavaria like all German states has a separate police and justice system (distinctive and non-federal), the CSU has actively participated in all political affairs of the German Parliament, the German government, the German Bundesrat, the parliamentary elections of the German President, the European Parliament and meetings with Mikhail Gorbachev in Russia. Like the CDU, the CSU is pro-European, although some Eurosceptic tendencies were shown in the past. Leaders Party chairmen Ministers-president The CSU has contributed eleven of the twelve Ministers-President of Bavaria since 1945, with only Wilhelm Hoegner (1945–1946, 1954–1957) of the SPD also holding the office. Election results Federal parliament (Bundestag) European Parliament Landtag of Bavaria See also List of Christian Social Union of Bavaria politicians Politics of Germany Notes and references Further reading Alf Mintzel (1975). Die CSU. Anatomie einer konservativen Partei 1945–1972 . Opladen. . External links Christlich-Soziale Union – official website (English page) Christian-Social Union (Bavaria, Germany) Christian-Social Union of Bavaria (CSU) 1945 establishments in Germany Bavarian nationalism Catholic political parties Centre-right parties in Europe Christian democratic parties in Germany Conservative parties in Germany International Democrat Union member parties Member parties of the European People's Party Parties represented in the European Parliament Political parties established in 1945 Politics of Bavaria Pro-European political parties in Germany Regional parties in Germany Social conservative parties
Cambridge is a city and the county town of Cambridgeshire, United Kingdom, famous for being the location of the University of Cambridge. Cambridge may also refer to: Places Australia Cambridge, Tasmania, a suburb of Hobart Town of Cambridge, a Western Australian local government area Barbados Cambridge, Barbados, a populated place in the parish of Saint Joseph, Barbados Canada Cambridge, Ontario, a city in Canada Cambridge (federal electoral district), a federal electoral district corresponding to Cambridge, Ontario Cambridge (provincial electoral district), a provincial electoral district corresponding to Cambridge, Ontario Cambridge, Hants County, Nova Scotia, a small community in Canada Cambridge, Kings County, Nova Scotia, a small community in Canada Cambridge Bay, Nunavut, a hamlet in Canada Cambridge Parish, New Brunswick, a civil parish in Canada Cambridge-Narrows, New Brunswick, a small community in Canada Jamaica Cambridge, Jamaica Malta Cambridge Battery/Fort Cambridge, an artillery battery New Zealand Cambridge, New Zealand South Africa Cambridge, Eastern Cape United Kingdom Cambridge (ward), Southport Cambridge, Gloucestershire Cambridge, Scottish Borders, a location in the United Kingdom Cambridge, West Yorkshire, a location in the United Kingdom Cambridge (UK Parliament constituency) County of Cambridge, another name for Cambridgeshire Cambridge Heath, a place in the London borough of Tower Hamlets Cambridge Town (disambiguation) or Camberley, Surrey, England United States Cambridge, Idaho Cambridge, Illinois Cambridge, Iowa Cambridge, Kansas Cambridge, Kentucky Cambridge, Maine Cambridge, Maryland Cambridge, Massachusetts Cambridge, Minnesota Cambridge, Missouri Cambridge, Nebraska Cambridge, New Hampshire, a township Cambridge, Delran, New Jersey Cambridge, Evesham, New Jersey Cambridge (town), New York Cambridge (village), New York Cambridge, Ohio Cambridge, Vermont Cambridge (village), Vermont Cambridge, Wisconsin Cambridge City, Indiana Cambridge Springs, Pennsylvania Cambridge Township, Ohio Cambridge Township, Henry County, Illinois Cambridge Township, Michigan Cambridge Township, Minnesota Cambridge Township, Pennsylvania Extraterrestrial 2531 Cambridge, a stony Main Belt asteroid in the Solar System People Given name Cambridge Jones, British celebrity photographer Surnames Alice Cambridge (1762–1829), early Irish Methodist preacher Alyson Cambridge (born 1980), American operatic soprano and classical music, jazz, and American popular song singer Asuka Cambridge (born 1993), Japanese sprint athlete Barrington Cambridge (born 1957), Guyanese boxer Godfrey Cambridge (1933–1976), American stand-up comic and actor Richard Owen Cambridge (1717–1802), British poet Titles Duke of Cambridge Brands and enterprises Cambridge (cigarette) Cambridge Audio, a manufacturer of audio equipment Cambridge Glass, a glass company of Cambridge, Ohio Cambridge Scientific Instrument Company, founded 1881 in England Cambridge SoundWorks, a manufacturer of audio equipment Cambridge Theatre, a theatre in the West End of London Cambridge University Press Educational institutions Cambridge State University, US The Cambridge School (disambiguation) University of Cambridge, UK Other uses Cambridge (book), 2005 book by Tim Rawle Cambridge (ship), four merchant ships Austin Cambridge, motor car range produced by the Austin Motor Company Cambridge Circus (disambiguation)
Norman Colin Dexter (29 September 1930 – 21 March 2017) was an English crime writer known for his Inspector Morse series of novels, which were written between 1975 and 1999 and adapted as an ITV television series, Inspector Morse, from 1987 to 2000. His characters have spawned a sequel series, Lewis from 2006 to 2015, and a prequel series, Endeavour from 2012 to 2023. Early life and career Dexter was born in Stamford, Lincolnshire, to Alfred and Dorothy Dexter. He had an elder brother, John, a fellow classicist, who taught Classics at The King's School, Peterborough, and a sister, Avril. Alfred ran a small garage and taxi company from premises in Scotgate, Stamford. Dexter was educated at St John's Infants School and Bluecoat Junior School, from which he gained a scholarship to Stamford School, a boys' grammar school, where a younger contemporary was England cricket captain and England rugby player M. J. K. Smith. After leaving school, Dexter completed his national service with the Royal Corps of Signals and then read Classics at Christ's College, Cambridge, graduating in 1953 and receiving a master's degree in 1958. In 1954, Dexter began his teaching career as assistant Classics master at Wyggeston Grammar School for Boys in Leicester. There he helped the school's Christian Union. However, in 2000 he stated that he shared the same views on politics and religion as Inspector Morse, who was portrayed in the final Morse novel, The Remorseful Day, as an atheist. A post at Loughborough Grammar School followed in 1957, then he took up the position of senior Classics teacher at Corby Grammar School, Northamptonshire, in 1959. In 1966, he was forced by the onset of deafness to retire from teaching and took up the post of senior assistant secretary at the University of Oxford Delegacy of Local Examinations (UODLE) in Oxford, a job he held until his retirement in 1988. In November 2008, Dexter featured prominently in the BBC Four programme "How to Solve a Cryptic Crossword" as part of the Timeshift series, in which he recounted some of the crossword clues solved by Morse. Writing career The initial books written by Dexter were general studies textbooks. He began writing mysteries in 1972 during a family holiday. Last Bus to Woodstock was published in 1975 and introduced the character of Inspector Morse, the irascible detective whose penchants for cryptic crosswords, English literature, cask ale, and music by Wagner reflected Dexter's own enthusiasms. Dexter's plots used false leads and other red herrings, "presenting Morse, and his readers, with fiendishly difficult puzzles to solve". The success of the 33 two-hour episodes of the ITV television series Inspector Morse, produced between 1987 and 2000, brought further attention to Dexter's writings. The show featured Inspector Morse, played by John Thaw, and his assistant Sergeant Robert Lewis, played by Kevin Whately. In the manner of Alfred Hitchcock, Dexter made a cameo appearance in almost all episodes. From 2006 to 2015, Morse's assistant Lewis was featured in a 33-episode ITV series titled Lewis (Inspector Lewis in the United States). Lewis is assisted by DS James Hathaway, played by Laurence Fox. A prequel series, Endeavour, features a young Morse and stars Shaun Evans and Roger Allam. Endeavour was first broadcast on the ITV network in 2012, ending with the ninth series in 2023, taking young Morse's career into 1972. Dexter was a consultant for Lewis and the first few years of Endeavour. As with Morse, Dexter occasionally made cameo appearances in both Lewis and Endeavour. Although Dexter's military service was as a Morse code operator in the Royal Corps of Signals, the character was named after his friend Sir Jeremy Morse, a crossword devotee like Dexter. The music for the television series, written by Barrington Pheloung, used a motif based on the Morse code for Morse's name. Awards and honours Dexter received several Crime Writers' Association awards: two Silver Daggers for Service of All the Dead in 1979 and The Dead of Jericho in 1981; two Gold Daggers for The Wench is Dead in 1989 and The Way Through the Woods in 1992; and a Cartier Diamond Dagger for lifetime achievement in 1997. In 1996, Dexter received a Macavity Award for his short story "Evans Tries an O-Level". In 1980, he was elected a member of the by-invitation-only Detection Club. In 2005 Dexter became a Fellow by Special Election of St Cross College, Oxford. In the 2000 Birthday Honours Dexter was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire for services to literature. In 2001 he was awarded the Freedom of the City of Oxford. In September 2011, the University of Lincoln awarded Dexter an honorary Doctor of Letters degree. Personal life In 1956 he married Dorothy Cooper. They had a daughter, Sally, and a son, Jeremy. Death On 21 March 2017 Dexter's publisher, Macmillan, said in a statement "With immense sadness, Macmillan announces the death of Colin Dexter who died peacefully at his home in Oxford this morning". Bibliography Inspector Morse novels Last Bus to Woodstock (1975) Last Seen Wearing (1976) The Silent World of Nicholas Quinn (1977) Service of All the Dead (1979) The Dead of Jericho (1981) The Riddle of the Third Mile (1983) The Secret of Annexe 3 (1986) The Wench is Dead (1989) The Jewel That Was Ours (1991) The Way Through the Woods (1992) The Daughters of Cain (1994) Death Is Now My Neighbour (1996) The Remorseful Day (1999) Novellas and short story collections The Inside Story (1993) Neighbourhood Watch (1993) Morse's Greatest Mystery (1993); also published as As Good as Gold "As Good as Gold" (Morse) "Morse's Greatest Mystery" (Morse) "Evans Tries an O-Level" "Dead as a Dodo" (Morse) "At the Lulu-Bar Motel" "Neighbourhood Watch" (Morse) "A Case of Mis-Identity" (a Sherlock Holmes pastiche) "The Inside Story" (Morse) "Monty's Revolver" "The Carpet-Bagger" "Last Call" (Morse) Uncollected short stories "The Burglar" in You, The Mail on Sunday (1994) "The Double Crossing" in Mysterious Pleasures (2003) "Between the Lines" in The Detection Collection (2005) "The Case of the Curious Quorum" (featuring Inspector Lewis) in The Verdict of Us All (2006) "The Other Half" in The Strand Magazine (February–May 2007) "Morse and the Mystery of the Drunken Driver" in Daily Mail (December 2008) "Clued Up" (a 4-page story featuring Lewis and Morse solving a crossword) in Cracking Cryptic Crosswords (2009) Other Foreword to Chambers Crossword Manual (2001) Chambers Book of Morse Crosswords (2006) Foreword to Oxford: A Cultural and Literary History (2007) Cracking Cryptic Crosswords: A Guide to Solving Cryptic Crosswords (2010) Foreword to Oxford Through the Lens (2016) See also Diogenes Small References External links 1930 births 2017 deaths People from Stamford, Lincolnshire People educated at Stamford School Alumni of Christ's College, Cambridge Cartier Diamond Dagger winners English crime fiction writers English male novelists English mystery writers British detective fiction writers Fellows of St Cross College, Oxford Writers from Oxford Inspector Morse Macavity Award winners Members of the Detection Club Officers of the Order of the British Empire Crossword creators Royal Corps of Signals soldiers 20th-century British Army personnel
A calf (: calves) is a young domestic cow or bull. Calves are reared to become adult cattle or are slaughtered for their meat, called veal, and their hide. The term calf is also used for some other species. See "Other animals" below. Terminology "Calf" is the term used from birth to weaning, when it becomes known as a weaner or weaner calf, though in some areas the term "calf" may be used until the animal is a yearling. The birth of a calf is known as calving. A calf that has lost its mother is an orphan calf, also known as a poddy or poddy-calf in British. Bobby calves are young calves which are to be slaughtered for human consumption. A vealer is a calf weighing less than about which is at about eight to nine months of age. A young female calf from birth until she has had a calf of her own is called a heifer (). In the American Old West, a motherless or small, runty calf was sometimes referred to as a dodie. The term "calf" is also used for some other species. See "Other animals" below. Early development Calves may be produced by natural means, or by artificial breeding using artificial insemination or embryo transfer. Calves are born after nine months. They usually stand within a few minutes of calving, and suckle within an hour. However, for the first few days they are not easily able to keep up with the rest of the herd, so young calves are often left hidden by their mothers, who visit them several times a day to suckle them. By a week old the calf is able to follow the mother all the time. Some calves are ear tagged soon after birth, especially those that are stud cattle in order to correctly identify their dams (mothers), or in areas (such as the EU) where tagging is a legal requirement for cattle. Typically when the calves are about two months old they are branded, ear marked, castrated and vaccinated. Calf rearing systems The single suckler system of rearing calves is similar to that occurring naturally in wild cattle, where each calf is suckled by its own mother until it is weaned at about nine months old. This system is commonly used for rearing beef cattle throughout the world. Cows kept on poor forage (as is typical in subsistence farming) produce a limited amount of milk. A calf left with such a mother all the time can easily drink all the milk, leaving none for human consumption. For dairy production under such circumstances, the calf's access to the cow must be limited, for example by penning the calf and bringing the mother to it once a day after partly milking her. The small amount of milk available for the calf under such systems may mean that it takes a longer time to rear, and in subsistence farming it is therefore common for cows to calve only in alternate years. In more intensive dairy farming, cows can easily be bred and fed to produce far more milk than one calf can drink. In the multi-suckler system, several calves are fostered onto one cow in addition to her own, and these calves' mothers can then be used wholly for milk production. More commonly, calves of dairy cows are fed formula milk from soon after birth, usually from a bottle or bucket. Purebred female calves of dairy cows are reared as replacement dairy cows. Most purebred dairy calves are produced by artificial insemination (AI). By this method each bull can serve many cows, so only a very few of the purebred dairy male calves are needed to provide bulls for breeding. The remainder of the male calves may be reared for beef or veal; Only a proportion of purebred heifers are needed to provide replacement cows, so often some of the cows in dairy herds are put to a beef bull to produce crossbred calves suitable for rearing as beef. Veal calves may be reared entirely on milk formula and killed at about 18 or 20 weeks as "white" veal, or fed on grain and hay and killed at 22 to 35 weeks to produce red or pink veal. Growth A commercial steer or bull calf is expected to put on about per month. A nine-month-old steer or bull is therefore expected to weigh about . Heifers will weigh at least at eight months of age. Calves are usually weaned at about eight to nine months of age, but depending on the season and condition of the dam, they might be weaned earlier. They may be paddock weaned, often next to their mothers, or weaned in stockyards. The latter system is preferred by some as it accustoms the weaners to the presence of people and they are trained to take feed other than grass. Small numbers may also be weaned with their dams with the use of weaning nose rings or nosebands which results in the mothers rejecting the calves' attempts to suckle. Many calves are also weaned when they are taken to the large weaner auction sales that are conducted in the south eastern states of Australia. Victoria and New South Wales have (sale yard numbers) of up to 8,000 weaners (calves) for auction sale in one day. The best of these weaners may go to the butchers. Others will be purchased by re-stockers to grow out and fatten on grass or as potential breeders. In the United States these weaners may be known as feeders and would be placed directly into feedlots. At about 12 months old a beef heifer reaches puberty if she is well grown. Diseases Calves suffer from few congenital abnormalities but the Akabane virus is widely distributed in temperate to tropical regions of the world. The virus is a teratogenic pathogen which causes abortions, stillbirths, premature births and congenital abnormalities, but occurs only during some years. Calves commonly face on-farm acquired diseases, often of infectious nature. Preweaned calves most commonly experience conditions such as diarrhea, omphalitis, lameness and respiratory diseases. Diarrhea, Omphalitis and Lameness are most common in calves aged up to two weeks, while the frequency of respiratory diseases tends to increase with age. These conditions also display seasonal patterns, with omphalitis being more common in the summer months, and respiratory diseases and diarrhea occurring more frequently in the fall. Uses Calf meat for human consumption is called veal, and is usually produced from the male calves of Dairy cattle. Also eaten are calf's brains and calf liver. The hide is used to make calfskin, or tanned into leather and called calf leather, or sometimes in the US "novillo", the Spanish term. The fourth compartment of the stomach of slaughtered milk-fed calves is the source of rennet. The intestine is used to make Goldbeater's skin, and is the source of Calf Intestinal Alkaline Phosphatase (CIP). Dairy cows can only produce milk after having calved, and dairy cows need to produce one calf each year in order to remain in production. Female calves will become a replacement dairy cow. Male dairy calves are generally reared for beef or veal; relatively few are kept for breeding purposes. Other animals In English the term "calf" is used by extension for the young of various other large species of mammal. In addition to other bovid species (such as bison, yak and water buffalo), these include the young of camels, dolphins, elephants, giraffes, hippopotamuses, deer (such as moose, elk (wapiti) and red deer), rhinoceroses, porpoises, whales, walruses and larger seals. (Generally, the adult males of these same species are called "bulls" and the adult females "cows".) However, common domestic species tend to have their own specific names, such as lamb, foal used for all Equidae, or piglet used for all suidae. References External links Weaning-beef-calves Calving on Ropin' the Web, Agriculture and Food, Government of Alberta, Canada Winter Feeding Sites and Calf Scours, Kansas State University Cattle Vertebrate developmental biology Articles containing video clips
Cracking may refer to: Cracking, the formation of a fracture or partial fracture in a solid material studied as fracture mechanics Performing a sternotomy Fluid catalytic cracking, a catalytic process widely used in oil refineries for cracking large hydrocarbon molecules into smaller molecules Cracking (chemistry), the decomposition of complex organic molecules into smaller ones Cracking joints, the practice of manipulating one's bone joints to make a sharp sound Cracking codes, see cryptanalysis Whip cracking Safe cracking Crackin, band featuring Lester Abrams Packing and cracking, a method of creating voting districts to give a political party an advantage In computing': Another name for security hacking; the practice of defeating computer security. Password cracking, the process of discovering the plaintext of an encrypted computer password. Software cracking, the defeating of software copy protection. See also Crack (disambiguation) Cracker (disambiguation) Cracklings (solid material remaining after rendering fat) Cracker (pejorative)
The Civil Rights Memorial is an American memorial in Montgomery, Alabama, created by Maya Lin. The names of 41 people are inscribed on the granite fountain as martyrs who were killed in the civil rights movement. The memorial is sponsored by the Southern Poverty Law Center. Design The names included in the memorial belong to those who were killed between 1955 and 1968. The dates chosen represent a time when legalized segregation was prominent. In 1956 the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in Brown v. Board of Education that racial segregation in schools was unlawful and 1968 is the year of the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. The monument was created by Maya Lin, who also created the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington, D.C. The Civil Rights Memorial was dedicated in 1989. The concept of Lin's design is based on the soothing and healing effect of water. It was inspired by a passage from King's 1963 "I Have a Dream" speech "...we will not be satisfied "until justice rolls down like waters and righteousness like a mighty stream..." The quotation in the passage, which is inscribed on the memorial, is a direct paraphrase of Amos 5:24, as translated in the American Standard Version of the Bible. The memorial is a fountain in the form of an asymmetric inverted stone cone. A film of water flows over the base of the cone, which contains the 41 names included. It is possible to touch the smooth film of water and to alter it temporarily, which quickly returns to smoothness. The memorial is designed in a timeline manner. It begins with Brown v. Board in 1954, and ends with Martin Luther King Jr.'s assassination in 1968. Tours and location The memorial is in downtown Montgomery, at 400 Washington Avenue, in an open plaza in front of the Civil Rights Memorial Center, which was the offices of the Southern Poverty Law Center until it moved across the street into a new building in 2001. The memorial may be visited freely 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The Civil Rights Memorial Center offers guided group tours, lasting approximately one hour. Tours are available by appointment, Monday to Saturday. The memorial is only a few blocks from other historic sites, including the Dexter Avenue King Memorial Baptist Church, the Alabama State Capitol, the Alabama Department of Archives and History, the corners where Claudette Colvin and Rosa Parks boarded buses in 1955 on which they would later refuse to give up their seats, and the Rosa Parks Library and Museum. Names included "Civil Rights Martyrs" The 41 names included in the Civil Rights Memorial are those of: Louis Allen Willie Brewster Benjamin Brown Johnnie Mae Chappell James Chaney Addie Mae Collins Vernon Dahmer Jonathan Daniels Henry Hezekiah Dee Roman Ducksworth Jr. Willie Edwards Medgar Evers Andrew Goodman Paul Guihard Samuel Hammond Jr. Jimmie Lee Jackson Wharlest Jackson Martin Luther King Jr. Bruce W. Klunder George W. Lee Herbert Lee Viola Liuzzo Denise McNair Delano Herman Middleton Charles Eddie Moore Oneal Moore William Lewis Moore Mack Charles Parker Lemuel Penn James Reeb John Earl Reese Carole Robertson Michael Schwerner Henry Ezekial Smith Lamar Smith Emmett Till Clarence Triggs Virgil Lamar Ware Cynthia Wesley Ben Chester White Sammy Younge Jr. "The Forgotten" "The Forgotten" are 74 people who are identified in a display at the Civil Rights Memorial Center. These names were not inscribed on the Memorial because there was insufficient information about their deaths at the time the Memorial was created. However, it is thought that these people were killed as a result of racially motivated violence between 1952 and 1968. Andrew Lee Anderson Frank Andrews Isadore Banks Larry Bolden James Brazier Thomas Brewer Hilliard Brooks Charles Brown Jessie Brown Carrie Brumfield Eli Brumfield Silas (Ernest) Caston Clarence Cloninger Willie Countryman Vincent Dahmon Woodrow Wilson Daniels Joseph Hill Dumas Pheld Evans J. E. Evanston Mattie Greene Jasper Greenwood Jimmie Lee Griffith A. C. Hall Rogers Hamilton Collie Hampton Alphonso Harris Izell Henry Arthur James Hill Ernest Hunter Luther Jackson Ernest Jells Joe Franklin Jeter Marshall Johnson John Lee Willie Henry Lee Richard Lillard George Love Robert McNair Maybelle Mahone Sylvester Maxwell Clinton Melton James Andrew Miller Booker T. Mixon Nehemiah Montgomery Frank Morris James Earl Motley Sam O'Quinn Hubert Orsby Larry Payne C. H. Pickett Albert Pitts David Pitts Ernest McPharland Jimmy Powell William Roy Prather Johnny Queen Donald Rasberry Fred Robinson Johnny Robinson Willie Joe Sanford Marshall Scott Jr. Jessie James Shelby W. G. Singleton Ed Smith Eddie James Stewart Isaiah Taylor Freddie Lee Thomas Saleam Triggs Hubert Varner Clifton Walker James Waymers John Wesley Wilder Rodell Williamson Archie Wooden See also Civil rights movement in popular culture History of fountains in the United States Title I of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 References External links Official Site Civil Rights Martyrs 1989 establishments in Alabama 1989 sculptures Buildings and structures in Montgomery, Alabama Fountains in Alabama History of civil rights in the United States History of Montgomery, Alabama Monuments and memorials in Alabama Monuments and memorials of the civil rights movement Southern Poverty Law Center Tourist attractions in Montgomery, Alabama Martyrs' monuments and memorials
Çevik Bir (born 1939) is a retired Turkish army general. He was a member of the Turkish General Staff in the 1990s. He took a major part in several important international missions in the Middle East and North Africa. He was born in Buca, Izmir Province, in 1939 and is married with one child. He graduated from the Turkish Military Academy as an engineer officer in 1958, from the Army Staff College in 1970 and from the Armed Forces College in 1971. He graduated from NATO Defense College, Rome, Italy in 1973. From 1983 to 1985, he served at SHAPE, NATO's headquarters in Belgium. He was promoted to brigadier general and commanded an armed brigade and division in Turkey. From 1987 to 1991, he served as major general, and then was promoted to lieutenant general. After the dictator Siad Barre’s ousting, conflicts between the General Mohammed Farah Aidid party and other clans in Somalia had led to famine and lawlessness throughout the country. An estimated 300,000 people had died from starvation. A combined military force of United States and United Nations (under the name "UNOSOM") were deployed to Mogadishu, to monitor the ceasefire and deliver food and supplies to the starving people of Somali. Çevik Bir, who was then a lieutenant-general of Turkey, became the force commander of UNOSOM II in April 1993. Despite the retreat of US and UN forces after several deaths due to local hostilities mainly led by Aidid, the introduction of a powerful military force opened the transportation routes, enabling the provision of supplies and ended the famine quickly. He was succeeded as Force Commander by a Malaysian general in January 1994. He became a four-star general and served three years as vice chairman of the Turkish Armed Forces, then appointed commander of the Turkish First Army, in Istanbul. While he was vice chairman of the TAF, he signed the Turkish-Israeli Military Coordination agreement in 1996. Çevik Bir became the Turkish army's deputy chief of general staff shortly after the Somali operation and played a vital role in establishing a Turkish-Israeli entente. He retired from the army on 30 August 1999. He is a former member of the Association for the Study of the Middle East and Africa (ASMEA). On 12 April 2012, Bir and 30 other officers were taken in custody for their role in the 1997 military memorandum that forced the then Turkish government, led by the Refah Partisi (Welfare Party), to step down. On 11 September 2021, the General Staff Personnel Presidency reported to the Ankara 5th High Criminal Court, where the case was heard, that the administrative action was taken to demolish the 13 retired generals convicted in the February 28 trial. Thus, Çevik Bir was demoted. Çevik Bir, one of the generals who planned the process, said "In Turkey we have a marriage of Islam and democracy. (…) The child of this marriage is secularism. Now this child gets sick from time to time. The Turkish Armed Forces is the doctor which saves the child. Depending on how sick the kid is, we administer the necessary medicine to make sure the child recuperates". Distinctions United Nations Medal (1994) US Medal of Merit (1994) Turkish Armed Forces Medal of Distinguished Service (1995) German Medal of Honor (1996) Turkish Armed Forces Medal of Merit (1996) United Kingdom Distinguished Achievement Medal (1997) United Kingdom Distinguished Service Medal (1997) Jordanian Medal of Istihkak (1998) French Medal of Merit (1999) References 1939 births Military personnel from İzmir Living people Turkish Military Academy alumni Army War College (Turkey) alumni Turkish Army generals
Collectivism is the type of social organization. Collectivism may also refer to: Bureaucratic collectivism, a theory of class society which is used to describe the Soviet Union under Joseph Stalin Collectivist anarchism, a socialist doctrine in which the workers own and manage the production Collectivism (art), art which is created by a group of people rather than an individual Communitarianism, a political position that emphasizes the importance of the community over the individual or attempts to integrate the two Corporatism, a political ideology in which groups, rather than individuals, are the building blocks of society See also Collective Collective farming, aka collectivization Collective security Collective ownership Collective agreement
The Cornish Nationalist Party (CNP; ) is a political party, founded by Dr James Whetter, who campaigned for independence for Cornwall. History It was formed by people who left Cornwall's main nationalist party Mebyon Kernow on 28 May 1975, but it is no longer for independence. A separate party with a similar name (Cornish National Party) existed from 1969. The split with Mebyon Kernow was based on the same debate that was occurring in most of the other political parties campaigning for autonomy from the United Kingdom at the time (such as the Scottish National Party and Plaid Cymru): whether to be a centre-left party, appealing to the electorate on a social democratic line, or whether to appeal emotionally on a centre-right cultural line. Originally, another subject of the split was whether to embrace devolution as a first step to full independence (or as the sole step if this was what the electorate wished) or for it to be "all or nothing". The CNP essentially represented a more right-wing outlook from those who disagree that economic arguments were more likely to win votes than cultural. The CNP worked to preserve the Celtic identity of Cornwall and improve its economy, and encouraged links with Cornish people overseas and with other regions with distinct identities. It also gave support to the Cornish language and commemorated Thomas Flamank, a leader of the Cornish Rebellion in 1497, at an annual ceremony at Bodmin on 27 June each year. The CNP was for some time seen as more of a pressure group, as it did not put up candidates for any elections, although its visibility and influence within Cornwall is negligible. In April 2009, a news story reported that the CNP had re-formed following a conference in Bodmin; however, it did not contest any elections that year. Dr Whetter was the founder and editor of the CNP quarterly journal, The Cornish Banner (An Baner Kernewek), within the actions of the Roseland Institute. Since his death in 2018 the CNP has been led by Androw Hawke. A newspaper article and a revamp of the party website in October 2014 state that the party is now to contest elections once more. John Le Bretton, vice-chairman of the party, said: "The CNP supports the retention of Cornwall Council as a Cornwall-wide authority running Cornish affairs and we call for the British government in Westminster to devolve powers to the council so that decisions affecting Cornwall can be made in Cornwall". The CNP polled 227 (0.4) votes in Truro during the 1979 UK General Election, 364 (0.67) in North Cornwall in the 1983 UK General Election, and 1,892 (1.0) at the European Parliament elections in the Cornwall and Plymouth constituency in 1984. The candidate on all three occasions was the founder and first leader of the CNP, Dr James Whetter. The CNP had one parish councillor, CNP leader Androw Hawke who was elected to Polperro Community Council for the second time on 4 May 2017. The reformed party was registered with the Electoral Commission in 2014, but ceased to be registered in 2017. Policy The Policy Statement and Programme of the CNP were published in 1975 and included the following points: To look after the interests of Cornish people. To preserve and enhance the identity of Kernow, an essentially Celtic identity. To achieve self-government for Kernow. Total sovereignty will be exercised by the Cornish state over the land within its traditional border. Kernow's official language will be Cornish. Better job prospects for Cornish people. Reduction of unemployment to an acceptable level (2.5%). The protection of the self-employed and small businesses in Cornwall. Cheaper housing and priority for Cornish people. Discouragement of second homes. Controls over tourism. The Cornish state will have control over the number and nature of immigrants. The establishment of a Cornish economic department to aid the basic industries of farming, fishing, china clay and mining and secondary industries developing from these. Improved transport facilities in Cornwall with greater scope for private enterprise to operate. Existing medical and welfare services for Cornish people will be developed and improved. Protection of Cornish natural resources, including offshore resources. Conservation of the Cornish landscape and the unique Cornish environment, culture and identity. Courses on Cornish language and history should be made available in schools for those who want them. Recognition of the Cornish flag of St Piran and the retention of the Tamar border with England. The rule of law will be upheld by the Cornish state and the judiciary will be separate from the legislative and executive functions of the state. The Cornish state will create a home defence force, linked to local communities and civil units of administration. Young Cornish people will be given instruction as to world religions and secular philosophies but the greatest attention will be given to Christianity and early Celtic beliefs. A far greater say in government for Cornish people (by referendums if necessary) and the decentralisation of considerable powers to a Cornish nation within a united Europe - special links being established with our Celtic brothers and sisters in Scotland, Ireland, Isle of Man, Wales and Brittany. The party's policies include the following: Calling for more legislative powers to be given to Cornwall Council. The authority should effectively become the Cornish government, with town and parish councils acting as local government. Cornwall council should have a reduction in councillors, with standardisation of electoral areas and constituencies in throughout Cornwall. The Westminster government should appoint a Minister for Cornwall and confirm there will be no further plans to have any parliamentary constituency covering part of Cornwall and Devon. Image There have been perceived image problems as the CNP has been seen as similarly styled to the BNP and NF (the nativist British National Party and National Front), and during the 1970s letters were published in the party magazine The Cornish Banner (An Baner Kernewek) sympathetic to the NF and critical of "Zionist" politicians. The CNP also formed a controversial uniformed wing known as the Greenshirts led by the CNP Youth Movement leader and Public Relations Officer, Wallace Simmons who also founded the pro-NF Cornish Front. (Although the CNP and CF were sympathetic to Irish republicanism while the NF was supportive of Ulster loyalism, with the exception of leading NF figures like Patrick Harrington, who refused to condemn the IRA during an interview for the Channel 4 TV documentary Disciples of Chaos). See also List of topics related to Cornwall Cornish self-government movement Constitutional status of Cornwall References External links The CNP at the Roseland Institute The Cornish Banner website 2017 Spectator magazine article about Cornish Nationalism, Mebyon Kernow and the CNP Political parties established in 1975 1975 establishments in the United Kingdom Home rule in the United Kingdom Conservative parties in the United Kingdom Politics of Cornwall Cornish nationalist parties Right-wing parties in the United Kingdom
In film and video, a cutaway is the interruption of a continuously filmed action by inserting a view of something else. It is usually followed by a cut back to the first shot. A cutaway scene is the interruption of a scene with the insertion of another scene, generally unrelated or only peripherally related to the original scene. The interruption is usually quick, and is usually, although not always, ended by a return to the original scene. The effect is of commentary to the original scene, frequently comic in nature. Usage The most common use of cutaway shots in dramatic films is to adjust the pace of the main action, to conceal the deletion of some unwanted part of the main shot, or to allow the joining of parts of two versions of that shot. For example, a scene may be improved by cutting a few frames out of an actor's pause; a brief view of a listener can help conceal the break. Or the actor may fumble some of his lines in a group shot; rather than discarding a good version of the shot, the director may just have the actor repeat the lines for a new shot, and cut to that alternate view when necessary. Cutaways are also used often in older horror films in place of special effects. For example, a shot of a zombie getting its head cut off may, for instance, start with a view of an axe being swung through the air, followed by a close-up of the actor swinging it, then followed by a cut back to the now severed head. George A. Romero, creator of the Dead Series, and Tom Savini pioneered effects that removed the need for cutaways in horror films. In news broadcasting and documentary work, the cutaway is used much as it would be in fiction. On location, there is usually just one camera to film an interview, and it is usually trained on the interviewee. Often, there is also only one microphone. After the interview, the interviewer usually repeats his questions while he is being filmed, with pauses that act as if the answers are listened to. These shots can be used as cutaways. Cutaways to the interviewer, called noddies, can also be used to cover cuts. The cutaway does not necessarily contribute any dramatic content of its own, but is used to help the editor assemble a longer sequence. For that reason, editors choose cutaways related to the main action, such as another action or object in the same location. For example, if the main shot is of a man walking down an alley, possible cutaways may include a shot of a cat on a nearby dumpster or a shot of a person watching from a window overhead. See also Buffer shot Cross-cutting Dissolve (filmmaking) Fast cutting Flashback Jump cut L cut Match cut Shot reverse shot Slow cutting Cutscene Cutaway gag References Cinematography Cinematic techniques Film editing
Constellations: An International Journal of Critical and Democratic Theory is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal of critical post-Marxist and democratic theory and successor of Praxis International. It is currently edited by Simone Chambers, Cristina Lafont, and Hubertus Buchstein. Ertug Tombus is the managing editor of the journal since 2009. Seyla Benhabib, Nancy Fraser and Andrew Arato are the co-founding former editors. With an international editorial contribution, it is based at the New School in New York. Nadia Urbinati, Amy Allen, Jean L.Cohen, and Andreas Kalyvas are former co-editors. References External links Sociology journals Academic journals established in 1994 Quarterly journals Wiley-Blackwell academic journals English-language journals
Catherine Grace "Cady" Coleman (born December 14, 1960) is an American chemist, engineer, former United States Air Force colonel, and retired NASA astronaut. She is a veteran of two Space Shuttle missions, and departed the International Space Station on May 23, 2011, as a crew member of Expedition 27 after logging 159 days in space. Education Coleman graduated from Wilbert Tucker Woodson High School, Fairfax, Virginia, in 1978. In 1978–1979, she was an exchange student at Røyken Upper Secondary School in Norway with the AFS Intercultural Programs. She received a B.S. degree in chemistry from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in 1983 and was commissioned as graduate of the Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (Air Force ROTC)., then received a Ph.D. degree in polymer science and engineering from the University of Massachusetts Amherst in 1991. She was advised by Professor Thomas J. McCarthy on her doctorate. As an undergraduate, she was a member of the intercollegiate rowing crew and was a resident of Baker House. Military career Coleman continued to pursue her PhD at the University of Massachusetts Amherst as a second lieutenant. In 1988, she entered active duty at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base as a research chemist. During her work, she participated as a surface analysis consultant on the NASA Long Duration Exposure Facility experiment. In 1991, she received her doctorate in polymer science and engineering. She retired from the Air Force in November 2009 as a colonel. NASA career Coleman was selected by NASA in 1992 to join the NASA Astronaut Corps. In 1995, she was a member of the STS-73 crew on the scientific mission USML-2 with experiments including biotechnology, combustion science, and the physics of fluids. During the flight, she reported to Houston Mission Control that she had spotted an Unidentified flying object (UFO). She also trained for the mission STS-83 to be the backup for Donald A. Thomas; however, as he recovered on time, she did not fly that mission. STS-93 was Coleman's second space flight in 1999. She was mission specialist in charge of deploying the Chandra X-ray Observatory and its Inertial Upper Stage out of the shuttle's cargo bay. Coleman served as Chief of Robotics for the Astronaut Office, to include robotic arm operations and training for all Space Shuttle and International Space Station missions. In October 2004, Coleman served as an aquanaut during the NEEMO 7 mission aboard the Aquarius underwater laboratory, living and working underwater for eleven days. Coleman was assigned as a backup U.S. crew member for Expeditions 19, 20 and 21 and served as a backup crew member for Expeditions 24 and 25 as part of her training for Expedition 26. Coleman launched on December 15, 2010 (December 16, 2010 Baikonur time), aboard Soyuz TMA-20 to join the Expedition 26 mission aboard the International Space Station. She retired from NASA on December 1, 2016. Spaceflight experience STS-73 on Space Shuttle Columbia (October 20 to November 5, 1995) was the second United States Microgravity Laboratory (USML-2) mission. The mission focused on materials science, biotechnology, combustion science, the physics of fluids, and numerous scientific experiments housed in the pressurized Spacelab module. In completing her first space flight, Coleman orbited the Earth 256 times, traveled over 6 million miles, and logged a total of 15 days, 21 hours, 52 minutes and 21 seconds in space. STS-93 on Columbia (July 22 to 27, 1999) was a five-day mission during which Coleman was the lead mission specialist for the deployment of the Chandra X-ray Observatory. Designed to conduct comprehensive studies of the universe, the telescope will enable scientists to study exotic phenomena such as exploding stars, quasars, and black holes. Mission duration was 118 hours and 50 minutes. Soyuz TMA-20 / Expedition 26/27 (December 15, 2010, to May 23, 2011) was an extended duration mission to the International Space Station. Personal Coleman is married to glass artist Josh Simpson who lives in Massachusetts. They have one son. She is part of the band Bandella, which also includes fellow NASA astronaut Stephen Robinson, Canadian astronaut Chris Hadfield, and Micki Pettit (wife of the astronaut Donald Pettit). Coleman is a flute player and has taken several flutes with her to the ISS, including a pennywhistle from Paddy Moloney of The Chieftains, an old Irish flute from Matt Molloy of The Chieftains, and a flute from Ian Anderson of Jethro Tull (band). On February 15, 2011, she played one of the instruments live from orbit on National Public Radio. On April 12, 2011, she played live via video link for the audience of Jethro Tull's show in Russia in honour of the 50th anniversary of Yuri Gagarin's flight, playing in orbit while Anderson played on the ground. On May 13 of that year, Coleman delivered a taped commencement address to the class of 2011 at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. As do many other astronauts, Coleman holds an amateur radio license (callsign: KC5ZTH). As of 2015, she is also known to be working as a guest speaker at the Baylor College of Medicine, for the children's program 'Saturday Morning Science'. In 2018, she gave a graduation address to Carter Lynch, the sole graduate of Cuttyhunk Elementary School, on Cuttyhunk Island, Massachusetts. In 2019 the Irish postal service An Post issued a set of commemorative stamps for the 50th anniversary of the Apollo Moon landings, Catherine Coleman is featured alongside fellow astronauts Neil Armstrong, Michael Collins, and Eileen Collins. References External links Cady Coleman Video produced by Makers: Women Who Make America 1960 births Living people Aquanauts Women astronauts United States Air Force astronauts NASA civilian astronauts Military personnel from Charleston, South Carolina People from Fairfax, Virginia People from Franklin County, Massachusetts Massachusetts Institute of Technology School of Science alumni University of Massachusetts Amherst College of Engineering alumni Female officers of the United States Air Force 21st-century American chemists American chemical engineers American women engineers Amateur radio people Amateur radio women Female explorers Scientists from Virginia United States Air Force colonels Space Shuttle program astronauts Wilbert Tucker Woodson High School alumni MIT Engineers athletes 21st-century American women Military personnel from Massachusetts
A counting-out game or counting-out rhyme is a simple method of 'randomly' selecting a person from a group, often used by children for the purpose of playing another game. It usually requires no materials, and is achieved with spoken words or hand gestures. The historian Henry Carrington Bolton suggested in his 1888 book Counting Out Rhymes of Children that the custom of counting out originated in the "superstitious practices of divination by lots." Many such methods involve one person pointing at each participant in a circle of players while reciting a rhyme. A new person is pointed at as each word is said. The player who is selected at the conclusion of the rhyme is "it" or "out". In an alternate version, the circle of players may each put two feet in and at the conclusion of the rhyme, that player removes one foot and the rhyme starts over with the next person. In this case, the first player that has both feet removed is "it" or "out". In theory a counting rhyme is determined entirely by the starting selection (and would result in a modulo operation), but in practice they are often accepted as random selections because the number of words has not been calculated beforehand, so the result is unknown until someone is selected. A variant of counting-out game, known as the Josephus problem, represents a famous theoretical problem in mathematics and computer science. Examples Several simple games can be played to select one person from a group, either as a straightforward winner, or as someone who is eliminated. Rock, Paper, Scissors, Odd or Even and Blue Shoe require no materials and are played using hand gestures, although with the former it is possible for a player to win or lose through skill rather than luck. Coin flipping and drawing straws are fair methods of randomly determining a player. Fizz Buzz is a spoken word game where if a player slips up and speaks a word out of sequence, they are eliminated. Common rhymes (These rhymes may have many local or regional variants.) Eeny, meeny, miny, moe 10 Little Indians Five Little Ducks Ip dip One, Two, Three, Four, Five Tinker, Tailor (traditionally played in England) Yan Tan Tethera Inky Pinky Ponky One potato, two potato Ink-a-dink En Den Dino Cultural references Marx Brothers A scene in the Marx Brothers movie Duck Soup plays on the fact that counting-out games are not really random. Faced with selecting someone to go on a dangerous mission, the character Chicolini (Chico Marx) chants: Rrringspot, vonza, twoza, zig-zag-zav, popti, vinaga, [tin-lie, tav,] harem, scarem, merchan, tarem, teir, tore... only to stop as he realizes he is about to select himself. He then says, "I did it wrong. Wait, wait, I start here", and repeats the chant—with the same result. After that, he says, "That's no good too. I got it!" and reduces the chant to Rrringspot, buck! And with this version he finally manages to "randomly" select someone else. Seinfeld A version of a counting game "ink-a-dink" features in the Seinfeld episode "The Statue." The relevant scene includes a discussion between the characters of Jerry and George if the person who is "it" is the "winner" or the "loser": JERRY: Alright, let's go. Hey, you know, you owe me one. GEORGE: What? JERRY: The Ink-a-dink.. you were It. GEORGE: Its bad? JERRY: Its very bad. See also Repetitive song References External links Videos of "choosing songs" a.k.a. Counting rhymes Selection Rhymes at the BBC's project h2g2 Counting rhymes and other songs for counting in traditional music from county of Nice, France. Nursery rhymes
Cantonese is a language originating in Canton, Guangdong. Cantonese may also refer to: Yue Chinese, Chinese languages that include Cantonese Cantonese cuisine, the cuisine of Guangdong Province Cantonese people, the native people of Guangdong and Guangxi Lingnan culture, the regional culture often referred to as Cantonese culture See also Cantonese Braille, a Cantonese-language version of Braille in Hong Kong Cantopop, Cantonese pop music
Cricket is a bat-and-ball sport contested by two teams. Cricket also commonly refers to: Cricket (insect) Cricket(s) or The Cricket(s) may also refer to: Film and television The Cricket (1917 film), a silent American drama film The Cricket (1980 film), an erotic drama film Crickets (film), a 2006 Japanese drama film Christine Blair or Cricket, a character in The Young and the Restless Cricket, a character in To Have and Have Not Matthew "Rickety Cricket" Mara, a character in It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia Cricket, a character in Big City Greens "Cricket", 5th episode of Servant (TV Series) Literature Cricket (magazine), an American literary magazine for children The Cricket (magazine), a 1960s music magazine "Chrząszcz" or "Cricket", a poem by Jan Brzechwa Cricket, a character in Fire on the Mountain Music The Crickets, a rock and roll band formed by Buddy Holly Cricket (musical), a musical by Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice Crickets (album), by Joe Nichols, 2013 Cricket (producer), Kosovo-Albanian record producer Crickets, a video album by Dredg released alongside their 2002 album El Cielo "Crickets", a song by Drop City Yacht Club "Cricket", a song by the Kinks from Preservation Act 1 Vehicles Cricket (1914 automobile), an early American automobile Plymouth Cricket (disambiguation), two automobiles Cricket-class coastal destroyer, a 1906 class of Royal Navy ships HMS Cricket (1915), an Insect-class gunboat HMS Cricket (shore establishment), Hampshire, 1943-1946 Other uses Cricket (darts), a game using the standard 20-number dartboard Cricket (roofing), a ridge structure designed to divert water on a roof Cricket (series), a series of cricket video games Cricket (warning sound), an audible warning in the cockpits of commercial aircraft Cricket dolls, a talking doll released by Playmates Toys in 1986 Cricket, North Carolina Cricket Wireless, wireless service provider, a subsidiary of AT&T Inc. Programmable Cricket, robotic toys Clicker or cricket, a noisemaker Cricket, a variation of the float breakdancing technique Cricket, a data collection software on top of RRDtool See also Colomban Cri-cri, a light plane Cricket House and Cricket Park, in Cricket St Thomas, England HMS Cricket, a list of Royal Navy ships Shturcite, a Bulgarian band, translated as The Crickets, or an album by them Tettigoniidae, known as katydids or bush-crickets Cricut, a cutting machine for home crafters
Christian most often refers to: Christians, people who follow or adhere to Christianity pertaining to Christianity Christian or The Christian may also refer to: Arts and entertainment Film Christian (1939 film), a Czech comedy film Christian (1989 film), a Danish drama film The Christian (1911 film), an Australian silent film The Christian (1914 film), an American silent film directed by Frederick A. Thomson The Christian (1915 film), a British silent film directed by George Loane Tucker The Christian (1923 film), an American silent film drama directed by Maurice Tourneur Music "Christian" (song), a 1982 song by China Crisis Christian the Christian, a 2004 album by Lackthereof The Christians (band), a UK band from Liverpool, formed 1985 Other uses in arts and entertainment The Christian, an 1897 novel and play by Hall Caine, adapted for Broadway The Christian (magazine), the title of several magazines Christian, the protagonist in John Bunyan's novel The Pilgrim's Progress People Christian (given name), including a list of people and fictional characters with the given name Christian (surname), including a list of people with the surname Christian of Clogher (d. 1138), saint and Irish bishop Christian of Oliva, a 13th-century Cistercian monk Christian (bishop of Aarhus), fl. c. 1060 to c. 1102 Christian (footballer, born 1995) (Christian Savio Machado) Christian (footballer, born 2000) (Christian Roberto Alves Cardoso) Christian (singer) (Gaetano Cristiano Rossi, born 1949) Christian, ring name of professional wrestler Christian Cage (William Jason Reso, born November 30, 1973) Prince Christian (disambiguation) Christian I (disambiguation) Christian II (disambiguation) Christian III (disambiguation) Other uses Christian the lion (born 1969) Christian, West Virginia, a place in the U.S. See also The Christians (disambiguation) St. Jude storm of 2013, also called Cyclone Christian Christian Doctrine in United States federal law, arising from G. L. Christian and Associates v. United States
The politics of Colombia take place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Colombia is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is carried out by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the two chambers of congress, the Senate and the House of Representatives of Colombia. The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature. Constitutional reforms Colombia's present constitution, enacted on July 5, 1991, strengthened the administration of justice with the provision for introduction of an adversarial system which ultimately is to entirely replace the existing Napoleonic Code. Other significant reforms under the new constitution provide for civil divorce, dual nationality, the election of a vice president, and the election of departmental governors. The constitution expanded citizens' basic rights, including that of "tutela," under which an immediate court action can be requested by individuals feeling that their constitutional rights are being violated and if there is no other legal recourse. The national government has separate executive, legislative, and judicial branches. Executive branch The president is elected for a single four-year term. Between 2005 and 2015, the president could be re-elected for a second term. The 1991 constitution reestablished the position of vice president, who is elected on the same ticket as the president. By law, the vice president will succeed in the event of the president's resignation, illness, or death. Since 2015, the president is barred from running for reelection, even for a nonconsecutive term. Legislative branch Colombia's bicameral Congress consists of a 108-member Senate of Colombia and a 172-member Chamber of Representatives of Colombia. Senators are elected on the basis of a nationwide ballot, while representatives are elected in multi member districts co-located within the 32 national departments. The country's capital is a separate capital district and elects its own representatives. Members may be re-elected indefinitely, and, in contrast to the previous system, there are no alternate congressmen. Congress meets twice a year, and the president has the power to call it into special session when needed. Political parties and elections 2018 Presidential election 2018 Legislative Election Senate {{#section-h:2018 Colombian par Chamber of Representatives Judicial branch The civilian judiciary is a separate and independent branch of government. Guidelines and the general structure for Colombia's administration of justice are set out in Law 270 of March 7, 1996. Colombia's legal system has recently begun to incorporate some elements of an oral, accusatory system. The judicial branch's general structure is composed of four distinct jurisdictions (ordinary, administrative, constitutional, and special). Colombia's highest judicial organs are the Supreme Court, the Council of State, the Constitutional Court, and the Superior Judicial Council. Although all the high courts technically oversee separate jurisdictions, the Constitutional Court has a broad spectrum of judicial oversight which often allows it to rule on issues overseen by different jurisdictions and even weigh in directly in the rulings of other high courts. International organization participation Global United Nations World Bank Other Regional References External links House of Representatives of Colombia Senate of Colombia Presidency of Colombia Supreme Court of Justice of Colombia de:Kolumbien#Politik
Since being liberalized in 1991, the Colombian telecommunications sector has added new services, expanded coverage, improved efficiency, and lowered costs. The sector has had the second largest (after energy) investment in infrastructure (54 percent) since 1997. However, the economic downturn between 1999 and 2002 adversely affected telecommunications. During this period, Colombia's telecommunications industry lost US$2 billion despite a profit of US$1 billion in local service. In June 2003, the government liquidated the state-owned and heavily indebted National Telecommunications Company (Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones—Telecom) and replaced it with Colombia Telecomunicaciones (Colombia Telecom). The measure enabled the industry to expand rapidly, and in 2004 it constituted 2.8 percent of gross domestic product (GDP). Telefónica of Spain acquired 50 percent plus one share of the company in 2006. As a result of increasing competition, Colombia has a relatively modern telecommunications infrastructure that primarily serves larger towns and cities. Colombia's telecommunication system includes access to 8 different international Submarine cable systems, INTELSAT, 11 domestic satellite Earth stations, and a nationwide microwave radio relay system. Telephones The country's teledensity (the density of telephone lines in a community) is relatively high for Latin America (17 percent in 2006). However, there is a steep imbalance between rural and urban areas, with some regions below 10 percent and the big cities exceeding 30 percent. Bogotá, Medellín, and Cali account for about 50 percent of telephone lines in use. By the end of 2005, the number of telephone main lines in use totaled 7,851,649. Colombia Telecom accounted for only about 31 percent of these lines; 27 other operators accounted for the rest. Colombia's mobile market is one of the fastest-growing businesses in the country. In 1993, the first mobile phone call was made. In mid-2004 mobile telephones overtook fixed lines in service for the first time. By 2005 Colombia had the highest mobile phone density (90 percent) in Latin America, as compared with the region's average density of 70 percent. The number of mobile telephone subscribers totaled an estimated 31 million in 2007, as compared to 21.8 million in 2005 and 6.8 million in 2001. Radio and television In late 2004, Radio Televisión Nacional de Colombia (RTVC) replaced the liquidated Inravisión (Instituto Nacional de Radio y Televisión) as the government-run radio and television broadcasting service, which oversees three national television stations and five radio companies (which operate about a dozen principal networks). Colombia has about 60 television stations, including seven low-power stations. In 2000 the population had about 11.9 million television receivers in use. Of the approximately 515 radio stations, 454 are AM; 34, FM; and 27, shortwave. Undersea Cables As of 2016, Colombia has access to the following international Submarine cable systems: SAC/LAN, Maya-1, AMX-1, Pan Am, SAm-1, ARCOS-1, CFX-1, and PCCS. These cables land at 4 locations in the Caribbean: Barranquilla, Cartagena, Riohacha, and Tolu. One cable lands on the Pacific Ocean coast at Buenaventura, Valle del Cauca. Internet Colombia is still far behind Brazil, Mexico, and Argentina in terms of online usage. It had an estimated total of 900,000 Internet subscribers by the end of 2005, a figure that equated to 4,739,000 Internet users, or 11.5 percent of the 2005 population (10.9 per 100 inhabitants). By late 2009 39% of households had internet access Colombia had 581,877 Internet hosts in 2006. Although as many as 70 percent of Colombians accessed the Internet over their ordinary telephone lines, dial-up access is losing ground to broadband. In 2005 Colombia had 345,000 broadband subscriber lines, or one per 100 inhabitants. In 2006 the number of personal computers per 1,000 people increased to an estimated 87 per 1,000 inhabitants, a rate still below that in other large Latin American economies. The internet country code is .co. References Internetworldstats.com External links Colombian Ministry of Communications Comunicate.com.co, Coldecon, Internet Provider Colombia
The Military Forces of Colombia () are the unified armed forces of the Republic of Colombia. They consist of the Colombian Army, the Colombian Navy and the Colombian Aerospace Force. The National Police of Colombia, although technically not part of the military, is controlled and administered by the Ministry of National Defence, and national conscription also includes service in the National Police, thus making it a de facto gendarmerie and a branch of the military. The President of Colombia is the military's commander in chief, and helps formulate defense policy through the Ministry of National Defence, which is in charge of day-to-day operations. The Military Forces of Colombia have their roots in the Army of the Commoners (), which was formed on 7 August 1819 – before the establishment of the present day Colombia – to meet the demands of the Revolutionary War against the Spanish Empire. After their triumph in the war, the Army of the Commoners disbanded, and the Congress of Angostura created the Gran Colombian Army to replace it, thus establishing the first military service branch of the country. The Colombian military was operationally involved in World War II and was the only Latin American country to send troops to the Korean War. Ever since the advent of the Colombian Conflict, the Colombian military has been involved in combat, pacification, counter-insurgency, and drug interdiction operations all over the country's national territory. Recently it has participated in counter-piracy efforts in the Horn of Africa under Operation Ocean Shield and Operation Atlanta. The military of Colombia is the third largest in the Western Hemisphere in terms of active personnel and has the fourth largest expenditure in the Americas, behind the United States Armed Forces, the Canadian Armed Forces and the Brazilian Armed Forces respectively. Services The Colombian Constitution includes two overlapping definitions of what could be defined as 'armed forces' in English: The Public Force (): Includes the Military Forces proper and the National Police (Title VII, chapter VII, Art. 216) The Military Forces (): Includes only the 3 major military service branches: Army, Navy and Aerospace Force (Title VII, chapter VII, Art. 217) This is a subtle yet important distinction, both in terms of emphasizing the civil nature of the National Police, but also adapting the national police to function as a paramilitary force which can perform military duties as a result of the Colombian Conflict. This has led to some of the most important police units adopting military training and conducting special operations alongside the Colombian Army, Aerospace Force, and Navy. Therefore, the functions of the Colombian Police in practical terms are similar to those of a gendarmerie, like the Spanish Civil Guard and the Carabineros de Chile, which maintain military ranks for all police personnel. Personnel The Colombian armed forces consist of: Military Forces: Colombian Army Colombian Navy – and attached services Marines and Colombian Coast Guard Colombian Aerospace Force And, National Police of Colombia Public Force strength as of April 2014. Dependencies Military Medical Corps ('') – Medical and Nurse Corps Indumil () – Military Industry Depot Military Sports Federation () Military Printing () Military Museum () – History of the Armed Forces of Colombia Superior War College (Escuela Superior de Guerra (Colombia) ESDEGUE) Funding In 2000, Colombia assigned 3.9% of its GDP to defense. By 2008 this figure had risen to 4.8%, ranking it 14th in the world. The armed forces number about 250,000 uniformed personnel: 145,000 military and 105,000 police. These figures do not include assistance personnel such as cooks, medics, mechanics, and so on. This makes the Colombian military one of the largest and most well-equipped in Latin America. Many Colombian military personnel have received military training assistance directly in Colombia and also in the United States. The United States has provided equipment and financing to the Colombian military and police through the military assistance program, foreign military sales, and the international narcotics control program, all currently united under the auspices of Plan Colombia. World factbook statistics Military manpower – military service age and obligation: 18 years of age for compulsory and voluntary military service; conscript service obligation – 24 months (2004) Military manpower – availability: males age 18–49: 10,212,456 females age 18–49: 10,561,562 (2005 estimate) Military manpower – fit for military service: males age 18–49: 6,986,228 females age 18–49: 8,794,465 (2005 estimate) Military manpower – reaching military age annually: males age 18–49: 389,735 females age 18–49: 383,146 (2005 estimate) Rank Insignia See also AFEUR Colombia Colombian Army Colombian military decorations Indumil Joint Task Force OMEGA Military ranks of the Colombian Armed Forces References and notes Includes 435 sub-officers and 3,125 agents Includes 123,125 executive personnel and 23,562 Auxiliary conscript External links Ministerio de Defensa de Colombia – Official Ministry of Defense site Comando General de las Fuerzas Militares – Official Armed Forces General Command Ejército Nacional de Colombia – Official Army site Ejército Nacional de Colombia – Official Army site Armada Nacional de Colombia – Official Navy site () Fuérza Aeroespacial Colombiana – Official Aerospace Force site Policía Nacional de Colombia – Official National Police site UNFFMM – Unofficial site of the Colombian Military Forces Other Links Colombian Military expenditure Bibliography Military of Colombia Ministry of National Defense (Colombia) fr:Armée nationale colombienne
The Czech Republic is a landlocked country in Central Europe. It is bordered by Germany to the west, Austria to the south, Slovakia to the east and Poland to the north. It consists mostly of low hills and plateaus surrounded along the borders by low mountains. Two areas of lowlands follow the Elbe river and the Morava river. About a third of the area of the Czech Republic is covered by forests. The Czech Republic also possesses Moldauhafen, a 30,000 m2 enclave in the middle of Hamburg docks in Germany, which was awarded to Czechoslovakia by Article 363 of the Treaty of Versailles to allow the landlocked country a place where goods transported down river could be transferred to seagoing ships. This territory reverts to Germany in 2028. Physical geography Climate The Czech Republic's climate is temperate, transitional between an oceanic climate and a continental climate. The summers are rather cool and dry, with average temperatures in most areas around 20 °C, the winters are fairly mild and wet with temperatures averaging around 0 °C in most areas. The relative humidity varies between 60% and 80%. Examples Geology Most of the area of the Czech Republic belongs to the geographically stable Bohemian Massif. Only an area of the Western Carpathians in the east of the country is younger, lifted during the Tertiary. Igneous rocks make up the base of the Bohemian Massif. Sedimentary rocks are mostly found in the north-eastern part of Bohemia with significant areas of sandstone. Among the metamorphic rocks, the most commonly found is Gneiss. Mountains The most notable mountain ranges in the Czech Republic are all found along the borders of the country. In Bohemia it is the Bohemian Forest and Ore Mountains, both bordering Germany. Then the long region of Sudetes with several mountains ranges, including Giant Mountains with Sněžka – the highest peak of the Czech Republic. The last major mountain range is the Moravian-Silesian Beskids in the east. Rivers There are four major rivers in the Czech Republic. The Elbe (locally "Labe") flows from the Giant Mountains in the north east of Bohemia to the west and then through northern Germany all the way to the North Sea. The Morava River drains most of Moravia and flows to the south into the Danube and ultimately to the Black Sea. The Oder starts in the Moravian Silesia and flows north through Poland into the Baltic Sea. The fourth major river is the Vltava, which is the longest river of the Czech Republic and drains the southern part of Bohemia before flowing into the Elbe at Mělník. Bodies of water Natural occurring bodies of water are rather scarce; most of the significant bodies of water are man-made ponds and reservoirs. The largest pond is the Rožmberk Pond, which is one of the system of fish ponds built in the 16th century around Třeboň. The largest reservoir by area covered is the Lipno Reservoir (4,870 ha), built in the 1950s and the largest reservoir by volume is Orlík Reservoir (716 million m3), built around the same time. The largest and deepest natural lake is Černé jezero (18.4 ha). Human geography Population geography The population of the Czech Republic is estimated to be around 10.6 million. The highest population density is in the larger metropolitan area of Ostrava and of course in the area around the capital of Prague. The lowest population density is in the Czech-German and Czech-Austrian borderlands, mostly as a lasting result of the expulsion of Germans from Czechoslovakia after the World War II. Political geography The Czech Republic is divided into thirteen regions and one capital city with regional status. The older administrative units of seventy-six districts are still recognized and remain the seats of various branches of state administration. Historically, the Czech Republic can be split into three regions: Bohemia in the west, Moravia in the east and Czech Silesia in the north east. Industry and agriculture Areas affected the most by heavy industry are the Sokolov Basin and the Most Basin in the north-west of the Czech Republic. The extensive deposits of brown coal in those areas are mostly used for electricity production. It is estimated, that almost 40% of all electric power produced in the Czech Republic comes from burning brown coal mined in these areas. Plant agriculture is focused around the lowlands surrounding the Elbe and the Morava. Around 34% of the country is covered by forests and approximately 37% of land is arable. The estimated area of irrigated land is 385 km2, and freshwater withdrawal per capita is around 164 m3 every year. See also Protected areas of the Czech Republic Rivers of the Czech Republic List of highest mountains of the Czech Republic References pt:República Checa#Geografia
Telephones - main lines in use: 2.888 million (2006) Telephones - mobile cellular: 13.075 million (2007) Telephone system: domestic: 86% of exchanges now digital; existing copper subscriber systems now being improved with Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line (ADSL) equipment to accommodate Internet and other digital signals; trunk systems include fibre-optic cable and microwave radio relay Indian Ocean regions), 1 Intelsat, 1 Eutelsat, 1 Inmarsat, 1 Globalstar Radio broadcast stations: AM 31, FM 304, shortwave 17 (2000) Radios: 3,159,134 (December 2000) Television broadcast stations: 150 (plus 1,434 repeaters) (2000) Televisions: 3,405,834 (December 2000) Internet Service Providers (ISPs): more than 300 (2000) Internet users: 4.4 million (2007) Country code: CZ See also : Czech Republic
Transport in the Czech Republic relies on several main modes, including transport by road, rail, water and air. Railways The Czech Republic has a total railway length of . The vast majority () is standard gauge. Electrified railways generally have voltages of 3 kV DC or 25 kV AC. of track is narrow gauge. The most prominent Czech railway company is the state-owned České dráhy (ČD) (English: Czech Railways). Prague has an underground rapid transit system, the Prague Metro. In addition, the cities of Brno, Liberec, Most, Olomouc, Ostrava, Plzeň, and Prague have tram systems. Roads The Czech Republic has, in total, of roads. It has of motorways. In the 1980s and 1990s there was a significant increase in passenger transport on the roads in the Czech Republic, which was associated with a sharp increase in the accident rate. Between 2007 and 2013, the death rate fell in every year, with a record low of 583 deaths in 2013, compared with the 1994 high of 1,473 casualties. Despite this however, the fatality rate per head of population is moderately high, comparable to the United States. Highways There are 2 main categories of roads forming the main network: Motorways and Highways. These roads are managed by the state-owned Directorate of Highways and Motorways of the Czech Republic – ŘSD, established in 1997. Among the first modern motorways in the Czech Republic was the motorway from Prague to the Slovak border through Brno whose construction was started on May 2, 1939. Motorways are dual carriageways with tolls and a speed limit of 130 km/h. Highways can be single and dual carriageway with a speed limit of 90 km/h (dual carriageways are commonly signposted as Roads for motorcars with a speed limit of 110 km/h). ŘSD currently manages and maintains 1,369 km of motorways (dálnice). Waterways The Vltava is the country's longest river, at 430 km. 358 km of the Elbe (Labe), which totals 1154 km, is also present in the country. An artificial waterway, nowadays used for recreation, is the Baťa Canal. Ports and harbors Děčín, Mělník, Prague, Ústí nad Labem, Moldauhafen in Hamburg (no longer operational, will be handed over to Germany in 2028) Airports In 2006, the Czech Republic had a total 121 airports. 46 of these airports had paved runways while 75 had unpaved runways. The largest and busiest airport in the Czech Republic is Václav Havel Airport Prague, opened in 1937. Other international airports include Brno–Tuřany Airport, Karlovy Vary Airport, Ostrava Leoš Janáček Airport, Pardubice Airport, Kunovice Airport and Public domestic and private international airport is for example Hradec Králové Airport. Airports with paved runways Total: 46 (2007) Over 3,047 m: 2 2,438 to 3,047 m: 10 1,524 to 2,437 m: 13 914 to 1,523 m: 2 Under 914 m: 19 Airports with unpaved runways Total: 75 (2007) 1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 914 to 1,523 m: 25 Under 914 m: 49 Heliports 2 (2006) See also Czech Republic List of airports in the Czech Republic Road signs in the Czech Republic European driving licence References External links Czech Transport idos.cz - public transport on-line timetables and trip planner (sponsored by the government) Transport in the Czech Republic cs:Česko#Doprava
The Czech Republic is a Central European country, a member of the European Union, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE), the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the United Nations (and all of its main specialized agencies and boards). It entertains diplomatic relations with 191 countries of the world, around half of which maintain a resident embassy in the Czech capital city, Prague. During the years 1948–1989, the foreign policy of Czechoslovakia had followed that of the Soviet Union. Since the revolution and the subsequent mutually-agreed peaceful dissolution of Czechoslovakia into the Czech Republic and Slovakia, the Czechs have made reintegration with Western institutions their chief foreign policy objective. This goal was rapidly met with great success, as the nation joined NATO in 1999 and the European Union in 2004, and held the Presidency of the European Union during the first half of 2009. International disputes Liechtenstein Throughout the past decades, Liechtenstein continuously claimed restitution for , or an area roughly ten times the size of Liechtenstein, of land currently located in the Czech Republic. The land was partially confiscated from the Liechtenstein family in 1918 with the rest of the property being confiscated in 1945 after the expulsion of Germans and confiscation of German property. The Czech Republic insisted that it could not acknowledge or be responsible for claims going back to before February 1948, when the Communists had seized power. As a result, Liechtenstein did not diplomatically recognize the existence of the Czech Republic as a new state (and, for that matter, also that of the Slovak Republic) until 2009. In July 2009, the Prince of Liechtenstein announced he was resigning to the previous unsuccessful claims to property located in the Czech Republic, and on 13 July 2009, after politically recognizing one another, the Czech Republic and Liechtenstein formally established diplomatic relations. Placement of US National Missile Defense base In February 2007, the US started formal negotiations with Czech Republic and Poland concerning construction of missile shield installations in those countries for a Ground-based Midcourse Defense System. Government of the Czech Republic agrees (while 67% Czechs disagree and only about 22% support it) to host a missile defense radar on its territory while a base of missile interceptors is supposed to be built in Poland. The objective is reportedly to protect another parts of US National Missile Defense from long-range missile strikes from Iran and North Korea, but Czech PM Mirek Topolánek said the main reason is to avoid Russian influence and strengthen ties to US. The main government supporter Alexandr Vondra, Deputy Prime Minister for European affairs, used to be an ambassador to the USA. More problematic is that between 2004 and 2006 he was an executive director of a lobbying company Dutko Worldwide Prague. Dutko's and its strategic partner AMI Communications (PR company) customers are Boeing, Lockheed Martin, Nortrop Grumman, which are largest contractors for NMD development. AMI Communications also received (without a formal selection procedure) a government contract to persuade Czechs to support US radar base. Diplomatic relations List of countries with which the Czech Republic maintains diplomatic relations with: Bilateral relations Africa Americas Asia Europe Multilateral relations Foreign relations of the European Union Foreign relations of NATO See also List of diplomatic missions in the Czech Republic Visa policy of the Schengen Area Visa requirements for Czech citizens Visa (document)#Visa restrictions References External links Concept of foreign policy of the Czech Republic Government of the Czech Republic
Climbing is the activity of using one's hands, feet, or other parts of the body to ascend a steep topographical object that can range from the world's tallest mountains (e.g. the eight thousanders) to small boulders. Climbing is done for locomotion, sporting recreation, for competition, and is also done in trades that rely on ascension, such as rescue and military operations. Climbing is done indoors and outdoors, on natural surfaces (e.g. rock climbing and ice climbing), and on artificial surfaces (e.g. climbing walls) The sport of climbing has evolved by ascending different types of climbing routes at ever-increasing grades of difficulty. Professional mountain guides or rock climbing guides (e.g. the UIAGM), were an important element in developing the popularity of the sport in the natural environment, and remain so today. Since the 1980s, the development of competition climbing and the availability of artificial climbing walls have dramatically increased the popularity of rock climbing as a sport, and led to the emergence of professional rock climbers, such as Wolfgang Güllich, Chris Sharma, Adam Ondra, Lynn Hill, Catherine Destivelle, and Janja Garnbret. Climbing became an Olympic sport for the first time in the 2021 Olympic Games in Tokyo (see Sport climbing at the 2020 Summer Olympics) in that format that included competition lead climbing, competition bouldering, and competition speed climbing disciplines. Competition ice climbing is not yet an Olympic sport. Rock-based Rock climbing can trace its origins to the late 19th-century, and has since developed into a number of main sub-disciplines (single-pitch, multi-pitch/big wall, bouldering, and competition), which in themselves can be conducted in varying manners (aid, sport, traditional and free solo): Single pitch climbing means ascending climbs that are a single rope-length (up to 50-metres) while big wall climbing (and multi-pitch climbing) means ascending routes that are many rope-lengths (can be up to 1,000-metres). These two rock climbing sub-disciplines can be conducted in one of a number of ways: Aid climbing is a form of rock climbing that uses artificial aids such as aiders, pitons, and other mechanical devices to assist in ascending a route. Much of rock climbing began as aid climbing, and even up until the 1970s, many big wall routes required aid climbing techniques. Sport climbing is a form of rock climbing that uses no artificial aids (which is known as free climbing), but does rely on permanent fixed bolts (or other mechanical anchors), for use as protection while climbing (but not as aid); was started in the 1980s in France. Traditional climbing is a form of rock climbing that uses no artificial aids (and is thus free climbing) but unlike sport climbing, the climbers place removable protection such as camming devices and nuts while ascending the route, which is then removed by the second climber. Free soloing is a form of rock climbing that uses no artificial aids (and is thus free climbing) and where the climber uses no protection (neither sport nor traditional); thus any fall while free soloing could be fatal; deep-water soloing is a form of free soloing where a fall will result in landing into safe water. Top rope climbing is a form of rock climbing that uses no artificial aids but as the sole form of protection, uses a pre-fixed rope secured to the top of the route (i.e. is used on single-pitches), and thus should the climber fall, they simply hang off the rope with no risk of any injury; it is not regarded as free climbing. Bouldering: means ascending boulders or small outcrops with no artificial aids (free climbing) and due to the lower height, with no protection (making bouldering a form of free soloing); very tall boulders where a fall could be serious (i.e. up to 10-metres) are known as highball bouldering. Competition climbing: A regulated competitive sport of recent origins from the 1980s, normally practiced as indoor climbing on artificial climbing walls that resemble natural formations. The International Federation of Sport Climbing (IFSC) is the official governing body for competition rock climbing worldwide and is recognized by the IOC and GAISF and is a member of the International World Games Association (IWGA). The UIAA is the official governing body for competition ice climbing worldwide. Competition rock climbing has three major disciplines: Lead climbing (performed as sport climbing), Bouldering, and Speed climbing (performed as top roping); competition climbing is sometimes confusingly called "sport climbing". Other mountain-based Alpine climbing: Ascending large routes that require rock, ice, and mixed climbing skills but with minimal equipment and no outside support. Ice climbing: Ascending ice or hard snow using equipment such as ice axes and crampons, but also equipment from rock climbing such as ropes. Mixed climbing: Ascending routes using ice climbing equipment where there is both rock and ice (called dry-tooling if there is no ice). Mountaineering: Ascending mountains, which can involve some rock or ice climbing, but unlike alpine climbing can involve support and fixed ropes. Via ferrata: Ascending mountain routes using previously installed fixed steel cables, metal rungs, and ladders for protection and aid. Scrambling: Climbing rocky faces and ridges, which can include basic rock climbing, but is considered part of hillwalking. Solo climbing: Ascending routes alone; can involve ropes (roped solo climbing) and artificial aid; where no protection or aid is used, it is free soloing. Other recreational-based Buildering: Ascending the exterior skeletons of buildings, typically without protective equipment (e.g. as free solo climbing by Alain Robert). Canyoneering: Climbing along canyons for sport or recreation. Crane climbing: An illicit act of climbing up mechanical cranes, which is a form of buildering. Grass climbing: An older form of climbing when climbing steep but grassy mountainsides, often requiring ropes, was undertaken. Mallakhamba: A traditional Indian sport that combines climbing a pole or rope with the performance of aerial yoga and gymnastics. Parkour: A sport based around smooth movement, including climbing, around urban landscapes. Pole climbing: Climbing poles and masts without equipment. Rope climbing: Climbing a short, thick rope for speed; not to be confused with roped climbing, as used in rock or ice climbing. Stair climbing: ascending elevation via stairs. Tree climbing: Recreationally ascending trees using ropes and other protective equipment. Commercial-based Rope access: Industrial climbing, usually abseiling, as an alternative to scaffolding for short works on exposed structures. A tower climber is a professional who climbs broadcasting or telecommunication towers or masts for maintenance or repair. In film Climbing has been the subject of both narrative and documentary film. Notable examples include Touching the Void, Everest, Cliffhanger, 14 Peaks, and Free Solo. The Reel Rock Film Tour is a traveling film festival that exclusively screens climbing and adventure films. Gallery See also List of climbers Glossary of climbing terms References External links Rock climbing: from ancient practice to Olympic sport, Freddie Wilkinson, (National Geographic, March 2019) Rock climbing - history & factfile, BBC (2022)
Congo may refer to: Congo River, in central Africa Congo Basin, the sedimentary basin of the river Democratic Republic of the Congo, the larger country to the southeast, sometimes referred to as "Congo-Kinshasa" Republic of the Congo, the smaller country to the northwest, sometimes referred to as "Congo-Brazzaville" Places Africa Congo Canyon, a submarine canyon Kingdom of Kongo (1390–1914) Kingdom of Kakongo (15th century–1885) Congo Free State (1885–1908) Republic of the Congo (Léopoldville) or Congo-Léopoldville (1960–1971) People's Republic of the Congo (1969–1992) Kongo, Ghana, town in Ghana Kongo, Liberia, small town in Liberia Former colonies Belgian Congo (modern-day Democratic Republic of the Congo) French Congo (modern-day Republic of the Congo) Portuguese Congo (modern-day Kabinda, Angola) United States Congo, Alabama Congo, Missouri Congo, Pennsylvania Congo, West Virginia Congo Cay, United States Virgin Islands Elsewhere Congo, New South Wales, Australia Congo, Paraíba, Brazil Congo River (disambiguation), a list of rivers with the name Congo Town, a village in Andros Island, Bahamas Congo Volcano or Congo Mountain, in Costa Rica Languages and ethnic groups Niger–Congo languages Kongo languages Kongo language, a Bantu language Kongo people, a Bantu ethnic group Arts and entertainment Music The Congos, a reggae vocal group from Jamaica Congo (album), 1979 "Congo" (song), by Genesis, 1997 Kongos (band), a South African American band Other uses in arts, entertainment, and media Congo (novel), a 1980 novel by Michael Crichton Congo (film), a 1995 film based on the novel Congo (chess variant), using a 7×7 gameboard Congo (pinball), a 1995 pinball machine Congo (TV series), a 2001 nature documentary Congo – A Political Tragedy, a 2018 documentary film Congo: The Epic History of a People, a 2010 book by David van Reybrouck Kongo (1932 film), an American film People Edwin Congo (born 1976), Colombian footballer Louis Congo (fl. 1725), emancipated slave appointed public executioner of French Louisiana Richard Congo (born 1961), American basketball player Cheick Kongo (born 1975), French mixed martial arts fighter and kickboxer John Kongos (born 1945), South African singer and songwriter Kongo Kong, wrestling ring name of Steven Wilson (born 1979) Other uses Congo (chimpanzee), a chimpanzee who learned how to draw and paint Congo (loa), a voodoo spirit Congo Airways, the flag carrier of the Democratic Republic of the Congo Congo Airlines, a former airline , a Royal Navy ship Conference of NGOs (CoNGO), a membership association of non-governmental organizations Kongo University, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo Congo Brands, the manufacturer of Prime (drink) See also Conga (disambiguation) Congolese (disambiguation) King Kong (disambiguation) Kongo (disambiguation) Kongō (disambiguation) Kongolo (disambiguation) Congoid, an outdated historical grouping of various people Kakongo, former kingdom Language and nationality disambiguation pages
Continental Europe or mainland Europe is the contiguous mainland of Europe, excluding its surrounding islands. It can also be referred to ambiguously as the European continent, – which can conversely mean the whole of Europe – and, by some, simply as the Continent. When Eurasia is regarded as a single continent, Europe is treated both as a continent and subcontinent. Usage The continental territory of the historical Carolingian Empire was one of the many old cultural concepts used for mainland Europe. This was consciously invoked in the 1950s as one of the basis for the prospective European integration (see also multi-speed Europe) The most common definition of mainland Europe excludes these continental islands: the Greek islands, Cyprus, Malta, Sicily, Sardinia, Corsica, the Balearic Islands, Great Britain and Ireland and surrounding islands, Novaya Zemlya and the Nordic archipelago, as well as nearby oceanic islands, including the Canary Islands, Madeira, the Azores, Iceland, the Faroe Islands, and Svalbard. The Scandinavian Peninsula is sometimes also excluded as, even though it is a part of "mainland Europe", the de facto connections to the rest of the continent are across the Baltic Sea or North Sea (rather than via the lengthy land route that involves travelling to the north of the peninsula where it meets Finland, and then south through northeast Europe). Great Britain and Ireland In both Great Britain and Ireland, the Continent is widely and generally used to refer to the mainland of Europe. An amusing British newspaper headline supposedly once read, "Fog in Channel; Continent Cut Off". It has also been claimed that this was a regular weather forecast in Britain in the 1930s. In addition, the word Europe itself is also regularly used to mean Europe excluding the islands of Great Britain, Iceland, and Ireland (although the term is often used to refer to the European Union). The term mainland Europe is also sometimes used. Usage of these terms may reflect political or cultural allegiances, for example it has been observed that there is a correlation between whether a British citizen considers themselves "British" or "European" and whether they live in an area which primarily supported Brexit. Derivatively, the adjective continental refers to the social practices or fashion of continental Europe. Examples include breakfast, topless sunbathing and, historically, long-range driving (before Britain had motorways) often known as Grand Touring. Differences include electrical plugs, time zones for the most part, the use of left-hand traffic, and for the United Kingdom, currency and the continued use of certain imperial units alongside the metric units which have long since displaced customary units in continental Europe. Britain is physically connected to continental Europe through the undersea Channel Tunnel (the longest undersea tunnel in the world), which accommodates both the Eurotunnel Shuttle (passenger and vehicle use – vehicle required) and Eurostar (passenger use only) services. These services were established to transport passengers and vehicles through the tunnel on a 24/7 basis between England and continental Europe, while still maintaining passport and immigration control measures on both sides of the tunnel. This route is popular with refugees and migrants seeking to enter the UK. Scandinavia Especially in Germanic studies, continental refers to the European continent excluding the Scandinavian Peninsula, Britain, Ireland, and Iceland. The reason for this is that although the Scandinavian peninsula is attached to continental Europe, and accessible via a land route along the 66th parallel north, it is usually reached by sea. ("the Continent") is a vernacular Swedish expression that refers to an area excluding Sweden, Norway, and Finland but including Denmark (even the Danish Archipelago which is technically not a part of continental Europe) and the rest of continental Europe. In Norway, similarly, one speaks about as a separate entity. In Denmark, Jutland is referred to as the mainland and thereby a part of continental Europe. The Scandinavian Peninsula is now connected to the Danish mainland (the Jutland Peninsula) by several bridges and tunnels. Mediterranean and Atlantic islands The Continent may sometimes refer to the continental part of France (excluding Corsica and overseas France), the continental part of Greece (excluding the Aegean Islands, Crete, and the Ionian Islands), the continental part of Italy (excluding Sardinia, Sicily, etc.), the continental part of Portugal (excluding the Azores and Madeira), and the continental part of Spain (excluding the Balearic Islands, the Canary Islands, the plazas de soberanía, etc.). The term is used from the perspective of the island residents of each country to describe the continental portion of their country or the continent (or mainland) as a whole. Continental France is also known as l'Hexagone, "the Hexagon", referring to its approximate shape on a map. Continental Spain is referred to as peninsular Spain. See also Contiguous United States Continental philosophy Geographical midpoint of Europe Hajnal line Mainland Mainland Australia Mainland China Mainland Finland Mainland Tanzania Regions of Europe References Regions of Europe Political geography
The Claudine series consists of four early novels by French authors Colette and Henry Gauthier-Villars, published 1900–1904. Written in diary form, they describe the growth to maturity of a young girl, Claudine. Aged fifteen at the beginning of the first book, Claudine at School, the series describes her education and experiences as she grows up. All the books are written in first-person with the first three having Claudine herself as the narrator. The last in the series, Claudine s'en va, introduces a new narrator, Annie. The novels were written in the late 19th century in collaboration with Colette's first husband, the writer Henry Gauthier-Villars, better known by his pen name "Willy". There has been much speculation over the degree of involvement of both Colette and Willy in the writing of the Claudine novels, particularly as Willy was known for often using ghostwriters. Consequently, although the novels were originally attributed to Willy only and published under his name alone, they were later published under both names. After the death of Willy, Colette went to court to challenge her former husband's involvement in any of the writing, and subsequently had his name removed from the books. This decision however was overturned after her death, as Willy's son from a prior relationship, Jacques Gauthier-Villars, successfully sued to have his father's name restored. The Claudine novels are thought to be roughly autobiographical. Claudine à l'école (1900) – Claudine at School Claudine à Paris (1901) – Claudine in Paris Claudine en ménage (1902) – Claudine Married Claudine s'en va (1903) – Claudine and Annie References Collaborative book series Bisexuality-related fiction Series of books Colette 1900s novels 1900s LGBT novels
A century is a period of 100 years. Centuries are numbered ordinally in English and many other languages. The word century comes from the Latin centum, meaning one hundred. Century is sometimes abbreviated as c. A centennial or centenary is a hundredth anniversary, or a celebration of this, typically the remembrance of an event which took place a hundred years earlier. Start and end of centuries Although a century can mean any arbitrary period of 100 years, there are two viewpoints on the nature of standard centuries. One is based on strict construction, while the other is based on popular perception. According to the strict construction, the 1st century AD began with AD 1 and ended with AD 100, the 2nd century spanning the years 101 to 200, with the same pattern continuing onward. In this model, the n-th century starts with the year that ends with "01", and ends with the year that ends with "00"; for example, the 20th century comprises the years 1901 to 2000 in strict usage. In popular perception and practice, centuries are structured by grouping years based on sharing the 'hundreds' digit(s). In this model, the n-th century starts with the year that ends in "00" and ends with the year ending in "99"; for example, the years 1900 to 1999, in popular culture, constitute the 20th century. (This is similar to the grouping of "0-to-9 decades" which share the 'tens' digit.) To facilitate calendrical calculations by computer, the astronomical year numbering and ISO 8601 systems both contain a year zero, with the astronomical year 0 corresponding to the year 1 BCE, the astronomical year -1 corresponding to 2 BCE, and so on. Alternative naming systems Informally, years may be referred to in groups based on the hundreds part of the year. In this system, the years 1900–1999 are referred to as the nineteen hundreds (1900s). Aside from English usage, this system is used in Swedish, Danish, Norwegian, Icelandic, Finnish and Hungarian. The Swedish (or ), Danish (or ), Norwegian (or ), Finnish (or ) and Hungarian (or ) refer unambiguously to the years 1900–1999. Italian also has a similar system, but it only expresses the hundreds and omits the word for 'thousand'. This system mainly functions from the 11th to the 20th century: (that is 'the four hundred', the 15th century) (that is 'the five hundred', the 16th century). These terms are often used in other languages when referring to the history of Italy. Similar dating units in other calendar systems While the century has been commonly used in the West, other cultures and calendars have utilized differently sized groups of years in a similar manner. The Hindu calendar, in particular, summarizes its years into groups of 60, while the Aztec calendar considers groups of 52. See also Age of Discovery Ancient history Before Christ Common Era Decade List of decades, centuries, and millennia Lustrum Middle Ages Millennium Modern era Saeculum Year Notes References Bibliography The Battle of the Centuries, Ruth Freitag, U.S. Government Printing Office. Available from the Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250- 7954. Cite stock no. 030-001-00153-9. Retrieved 3 March 2019. 100 (number) Units of time
In geometry, the circumference (from Latin circumferens, meaning "carrying around") is the perimeter of a circle or ellipse. The circumference is the arc length of the circle, as if it were opened up and straightened out to a line segment. More generally, the perimeter is the curve length around any closed figure. Circumference may also refer to the circle itself, that is, the locus corresponding to the edge of a disk. The is the circumference, or length, of any one of its great circles. Circle The circumference of a circle is the distance around it, but if, as in many elementary treatments, distance is defined in terms of straight lines, this cannot be used as a definition. Under these circumstances, the circumference of a circle may be defined as the limit of the perimeters of inscribed regular polygons as the number of sides increases without bound. The term circumference is used when measuring physical objects, as well as when considering abstract geometric forms. Relationship with The circumference of a circle is related to one of the most important mathematical constants. This constant, pi, is represented by the Greek letter The first few decimal digits of the numerical value of are 3.141592653589793 ... Pi is defined as the ratio of a circle's circumference to its diameter Or, equivalently, as the ratio of the circumference to twice the radius. The above formula can be rearranged to solve for the circumference: The ratio of the circle's circumference to its radius is called the circle constant, and is equivalent to . The value is also the amount of radians in one turn. The use of the mathematical constant is ubiquitous in mathematics, engineering, and science. In Measurement of a Circle written circa 250 BCE, Archimedes showed that this ratio ( since he did not use the name ) was greater than 3 but less than 3 by calculating the perimeters of an inscribed and a circumscribed regular polygon of 96 sides. This method for approximating was used for centuries, obtaining more accuracy by using polygons of larger and larger number of sides. The last such calculation was performed in 1630 by Christoph Grienberger who used polygons with 1040 sides. Ellipse Circumference is used by some authors to denote the perimeter of an ellipse. There is no general formula for the circumference of an ellipse in terms of the semi-major and semi-minor axes of the ellipse that uses only elementary functions. However, there are approximate formulas in terms of these parameters. One such approximation, due to Euler (1773), for the canonical ellipse, is Some lower and upper bounds on the circumference of the canonical ellipse with are: Here the upper bound is the circumference of a circumscribed concentric circle passing through the endpoints of the ellipse's major axis, and the lower bound is the perimeter of an inscribed rhombus with vertices at the endpoints of the major and minor axes. The circumference of an ellipse can be expressed exactly in terms of the complete elliptic integral of the second kind. More precisely, where is the length of the semi-major axis and is the eccentricity See also References External links Numericana - Circumference of an ellipse Geometric measurement Circles
A computation is any type of arithmetic or non-arithmetic calculation that is well-defined. Common examples of computations are mathematical equations and computer algorithms. Mechanical or electronic devices (or, historically, people) that perform computations are known as computers. The study of computation is the field of computability, itself a sub-field of computer science. Introduction The notion that mathematical statements should be 'well-defined' had been argued by mathematicians since at least the 1600s, but agreement on a suitable definition proved elusive. A candidate definition was proposed independently by several mathematicians in the 1930s. The best-known variant was formalised by the mathematician Alan Turing, who defined a well-defined statement or calculation as any statement that could be expressed in terms of the initialisation parameters of a Turing Machine. Other (mathematically equivalent) definitions include Alonzo Church's lambda-definability, Herbrand-Gödel-Kleene's general recursiveness and Emil Post's 1-definability. Today, any formal statement or calculation that exhibits this quality of well-definedness is termed computable, while the statement or calculation itself is referred to as a computation. Turing's definition apportioned "well-definedness" to a very large class of mathematical statements, including all well-formed algebraic statements, and all statements written in modern computer programming languages. Despite the widespread uptake of this definition, there are some mathematical concepts that have no well-defined characterisation under this definition. This includes the halting problem and the busy beaver game. It remains an open question as to whether there exists a more powerful definition of 'well-defined' that is able to capture both computable and 'non-computable' statements. Some examples of mathematical statements that are computable include: All statements characterised in modern programming languages, including C++, Python, and Java. All calculations carried by an electronic computer, calculator or abacus. All calculations carried out on an analytical engine. All calculations carried out on a Turing Machine. The majority of mathematical statements and calculations given in maths textbooks. Some examples of mathematical statements that are not computable include: Calculations or statements which are ill-defined, such that they cannot be unambiguously encoded into a Turing machine: ("Paul loves me twice as much as Joe"). Problem statements which do appear to be well-defined, but for which it can be proved that no Turing machine exists to solve them (such as the halting problem). The Physical process of computation Computation can be seen as a purely physical process occurring inside a closed physical system called a computer. Turing's 1937 proof, On Computable Numbers, with an Application to the Entscheidungsproblem, demonstrated that there is a formal equivalence between computable statements and particular physical systems, commonly called computers. Examples of such physical systems are: Turing machines, human mathematicians following strict rules, digital computers, mechanical computers, analog computers and others. Alternative accounts of computation The mapping account An alternative account of computation is found throughout the works of Hilary Putnam and others. Peter Godfrey-Smith has dubbed this the "simple mapping account." Gualtiero Piccinini's summary of this account states that a physical system can be said to perform a specific computation when there is a mapping between the state of that system and the computation such that the "microphysical states [of the system] mirror the state transitions between the computational states." The semantic account Philosophers such as Jerry Fodor have suggested various accounts of computation with the restriction that semantic content be a necessary condition for computation (that is, what differentiates an arbitrary physical system from a computing system is that the operands of the computation represent something). This notion attempts to prevent the logical abstraction of the mapping account of pancomputationalism, the idea that everything can be said to be computing everything. The mechanistic account Gualtiero Piccinini proposes an account of computation based on mechanical philosophy. It states that physical computing systems are types of mechanisms that, by design, perform physical computation, or the manipulation (by a functional mechanism) of a "medium-independent" vehicle according to a rule. "Medium-independence" requires that the property can be instantiated by multiple realizers and multiple mechanisms, and that the inputs and outputs of the mechanism also be multiply realizable. In short, medium-independence allows for the use of physical variables with properties other than voltage (as in typical digital computers); this is imperative in considering other types of computation, such as that which occurs in the brain or in a quantum computer. A rule, in this sense, provides a mapping among inputs, outputs, and internal states of the physical computing system. Mathematical models In the theory of computation, a diversity of mathematical models of computation has been developed. Typical mathematical models of computers are the following: State models including Turing machine, pushdown automaton, finite state automaton, and PRAM Functional models including lambda calculus Logical models including logic programming Concurrent models including actor model and process calculi Giunti calls the models studied by computation theory computational systems, and he argues that all of them are mathematical dynamical systems with discrete time and discrete state space. He maintains that a computational system is a complex object which consists of three parts. First, a mathematical dynamical system with discrete time and discrete state space; second, a computational setup , which is made up of a theoretical part , and a real part ; third, an interpretation , which links the dynamical system with the setup . See also Computability Theory Hypercomputation Computational problem Limits of computation Computationalism Notes References Theoretical computer science Computability theory
Palavela, formerly known as Palazzo delle Mostre and Palazzo a Vela is an indoor arena that is located in Turin, Italy, on the bank of the River Po. It was designed by engineer Franco Levi and architects Annibale and Giorgio Rigotti. The arena is 130 metres in diameter. It has a seating capacity for a maximum 12,200 people, and 9,200 when configured for basketball games. The Palavela was featured in the 1969 film The Italian Job. In a famous scene in the film, three Minis are seen driving onto and over the arena's distinctive roof. History Palavela was originally built for the Italia '61 Expo, and was renovated for the figure skating and short track speed skating events at the 2006 Winter Olympics. As part of the renovation, a new seating system was installed at the arena. The cost of the renovation was 55,000,000 euros. It also hosted some events of the XXIII Winter Universiade in 2007. In 2008, the Palavela hosted the 24th European Rhythmic Gymnastics. It hosted the 2010 World Figure Skating Championships in March 2010. The arena also hosted the 2008 ULEB Cup Final Eight, and also the same event, under the competition's new name of EuroCup, in the 2008–09 season. Events held 2005 European Figure Skating Championships 2006 Winter Olympics (Figure Skating and Short Track Speed Skating) 2007 Winter Universiade (Figure Skating and Short Track Speed Skating) 2007–2008 Grand Prix of Figure Skating Final 2008 Rhythmic Gymnastics European Championships 2010 World Figure Skating Championships 2017 European Short Track Speed Skating Championships 2019 Grand Prix Figure Skating Final 2022 Grand Prix Figure Skating Final See also List of indoor arenas in Italy References External links Venues of the 2006 Winter Olympics Basketball venues in Italy Indoor arenas in Italy Olympic figure skating venues Olympic short track speed skating venues
"Mad About the Boy" is a popular song with words and music by actor and playwright Noël Coward. It was introduced in the 1932 revue Words and Music by Joyce Barbour, Steffi Duna, Norah Howard and Doris Hare. The song deals with the theme of unrequited love for a film star. It was written to be sung by female characters, although Coward (who was a gay man) also wrote a version which was never performed, containing references to the then-risqué topic of homosexual love. The song gained new popularity in 1992 when Dinah Washington's rendition was used in the Levi's television advertisement "Swimmer", directed by Tarsem Singh. Lyrics The song expresses the adulation of a matinee idol by a number of women as they queue outside a cinema and is sung by several female characters in turn. The adoring fans sing of their love for their hero: Coward later wrote additional verses for the New York production, to be sung by a male character. The lyrics make explicit reference to homosexual feelings with lines such as: The lyrics also make camp humorous reference to the supposed effeminacy of the character, who is likened to the contemporary film actress Myrna Loy, and to his repeated unsuccessful attempts at conversion therapy with his psychiatrist. The verses were never performed, as the management thought them too risqué. "The boy" was rumoured to be actor Douglas Fairbanks Jr, who, according to an American newspaper years later, "Noel loved...[but] Doug definitely didn't love him back, although the two men became good friends." Another Hollywood star, Tyrone Power, has also been the rumoured subject of the song. Dinah Washington version Dinah Washington recorded the song twice: firstly, on 24 March 1952 with orchestral accompaniment by Walter Roddell, and then on 4 December 1961 with Quincy Jones and his orchestra. Her 1961 recording is possibly the most widely known version of the song. The time arrangement for voice and jazz orchestra by Jones omits two verses and was recorded in the singer's native Chicago on the Mercury label. Her 1952 version was released as a single, but the 1961 version was not given a single release until 1992. The song was one of the 40 songs she recorded with Quincy Jones in 1961. Some of these were issued on two albums: I Wanna Be Loved and Tears and Laughter, both released in 1962. The song "Tears And Laughter" was released as a single, but "Mad About the Boy" remained unreleased until Golden Hits – Volume One, a 1963 compilation. By that point, Washington had moved from the Mercury label to Roulette. The recording was also issued on other Washington compilations. Washington's version was popularised for a new generation when it was used as a backing track in a 1992 television advertisement for Levi's jeans. In the commercial, which is influenced by the 1968 Burt Lancaster film The Swimmer, a young man runs through an American suburban neighbourhood stripping down to only his jeans, invades private gardens and dives into a series of swimming pools to shrink his jeans. Washington's recording was re-released by Mercury as a tie-in in with the advertising campaign, and the cover art featured a shot of the shirtless man emerging from a swimming pool and bore the Levi's logo. The single entered the Top 50 in the UK Singles Chart. Other recordings Noël Coward with orchestra conducted by Ray Noble in London on 20 September 1932. The recording was not issued at the time but has been included on CD collections. Caro Emerald with Jools Holland's Rhythm and Blues Orchestra on the album 'The Golden Age of Song' (2012). Phyllis Robins with Jack Hylton & his Orchestra in London on 3 October 1932. Anona Winn with the Blue Lyres in London in October 1932. Elsie Carlisle with Ray Starita & his Ambassadors Band in London on 5 November 1932. Maxine Sullivan on 1 May 1940. Patti Page on the album The Waltz Queen Jessica Biel on the soundtrack for the film Easy Virtue (adapted from the Noël Coward play) Helen Forrest in 1949, later used in the video game Fallout: New Vegas The song has been performed by a number of other artists, including: Belle Baker Georgia Brown – Georgia Brown (1963) Blossom Dearie Buddy DeFranco Marianne Faithfull Frances Faye Maria Friedman Jackie Gleason Gogi Grant Glen Gray and the Casa Loma Orchestra Joyce Grenfell Dick and Kiz Harp – At the 90th Floor (1960) 90th Floor Records Lena Horne Greta Keller Eartha Kitt Cleo Laine Gertrude Lawrence Amanda Lear – Let Me Entertain You (2016) Beatrice Lillie Julie London – London by Night (1958) Andrea Marcovicci Billy May – The Ultimate (2002) Marian McPartland – At the Hickory House (1996) Carmen McRae Anita O'Day Esther Ofarim 1968 Cybill Shepherd, as the title track for her 1978 album with Stan Getz Elaine Paige on her 1993 album Romance & the Stage Miss Piggy (as Mad About the Frog) Tom RobinsonCabaret '79 (1982) Dinah Shore Sheridan Smith Jeri Southern – The Dream's on Jeri (1998) Cécile McLorin Salvant Adam Lambert (2022) See also Liberace References External links Sold on Song: bbc.co.uk, accessed 6 January 2009 Levi's 1992 "Swimmer" commercial dead link [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c4Kz7e7B7_E Esther Ofarim – Mad about the boy Songs written by Noël Coward Lena Horne songs 1932 songs Dinah Washington songs Tom Robinson songs Mercury Records singles Torch songs LGBT-related songs
Shayne Breuer (born 10 September 1972) is a former Australian rules footballer in the Australian Football League (AFL). He is notable for kicking Port Adelaide's first goal in the AFL. AFL career Geelong (1994–1996) Breuer started at Geelong and played every game in Geelong's AFL Grand Final years of 1994 and 1995, having 50 games on the board after only two seasons. He was a magnificent on-baller whose best year was in 1995 where he also booted 40 goals (career high five goals in the qualifying final against Footscray). Port Adelaide (1997–1999) After a solid year in 1996, Breuer went on to play on with Port Adelaide in their inaugural year in 1997 where he kicked 17 goals and played 21 games. But after the 1997 season he struggled to get a spot in the team. He played three seasons with the Power before getting de-listed at the end of the 1999 season. Breuer is mostly remembered by Port Adelaide fans for kicking Port Adelaide's first goal in the AFL. Coaching career Breuer had also coached Kalkee in the Horsham district league. After coaching Kalkee, he took on the coaching role at Horsham Saints Football Netball Club where he led the club to back-to-back senior premierships Current status Breuer played in the 2009 West End Slowdown. He has now retired from Kalkee and owns and manages sporting goods store Intersport in Horsham. External links Geelong Football Club players Port Adelaide Football Club players Port Adelaide Football Club players (all competitions) Woodville-West Torrens Football Club players Australian rules footballers from South Australia Living people 1972 births
Arundel was twice a parliamentary constituency in the Kingdom of England, the Kingdom of Great Britain, and the United Kingdom. The first incarnation strictly comprised the town centre of Arundel and was a borough constituency in Sussex first enfranchised in 1332 and disfranchised in 1868 under the Reform Act 1867. Arundel initially elected two members, but this was reduced to one in 1832 by the Great Reform Act. The second incarnation was broader, reaching to Bognor Regis. It was created by the Boundary Commission in the 1974 boundary changes, and existed until 1997. This Arundel seat elected only one member. The territory previously covered by Arundel was split between Arundel & South Downs and Bognor Regis & Littlehampton constituencies. Members of Parliament 1332-1640 Back to Members of Parliament 1640-1832 Back to Members of Parliament 1832-1868 Back to Members of Parliament Arundel County Constituency (1974-1997) Elections Elections in the 1830s Elections in the 1840s Back to Elections Elections in the 1850s FitzAlan-Howard's resignation in protest at the passing of the Ecclesiastical Titles Act 1851 caused a by-election. Back to Elections Elections in the 1860s Back to Elections Elections in the 1970s Back to elections Elections in the 1980s Back to Elections Elections in the 1990s Back to Top See also List of parliamentary constituencies in West Sussex Notes and references Sources Election results, 1974 - 1997 Concise Dictionary of National Biography (entry on Sir Nicholas Pelham) D Brunton & D H Pennington, Members of the Long Parliament (London: George Allen & Unwin, 1954) Cobbett's Parliamentary history of England, from the Norman Conquest in 1066 to the year 1803 (London: Thomas Hansard, 1808) Maija Jansson (ed.), Proceedings in Parliament, 1614 (House of Commons) (Philadelphia: American Philosophical Society, 1988) J Holladay Philbin, Parliamentary Representation 1832 - England and Wales (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1965) Parliamentary constituencies in South East England (historic) 1332 establishments in England Constituencies of the Parliament of the United Kingdom disestablished in 1868 Constituencies of the Parliament of the United Kingdom established in 1974 Constituencies of the Parliament of the United Kingdom disestablished in 1997 Arundel
Luis Andrew Martinez (November 15, 1972 – May 18, 2006) was an activist who was known at the University of California, Berkeley as the Naked Guy. Early attention Martinez was a high school football player when he attended Monta Vista High School in Cupertino, California. Martinez attended classes at the University of California, Berkeley. In September 1992, his second year in college, he began appearing unclad in public and led a campus "nude-in" to protest social repression. Campus police first arrested him that fall for indecent exposure when he jogged unclothed near southside dormitories late on a Saturday night. The county prosecutor refused to prosecute, concluding that nudity without lewd behavior was not illegal. Martinez began strolling around campus unclothed, citing philosophical reasons. He explained that when he dressed in expensive, uncomfortable, stylish, "appropriate" attire, he hid the fact that his personal belief was that clothes were useless in his environment except as a tool for class and gender differentiation. The university then banned nudity on campus. Martinez wrote a 1992 guest column in the Oakland Tribune: "When I walk around nude, I am acting how I think it is reasonable to act, not how middle-class values tell me I should act. I am refusing to hide my dissent in normalcy even though it is very easy to do so." Martinez, who typically attended classes wearing only sandals and a backpack, became a cause célèbre at the university for a while, participating in a number of nude events on campus and performances by the Bay Area nude performance group the X-Plicit Players. He appeared on national talk shows, was profiled in a photo essay in Playgirl and was parodied in the 1994 college comedy PCU. As a response to Martinez's actions, UC Berkeley issued its "Policy Statement Concerning Public Nudity and Sexually Offensive Conduct" banning public nudity on December 7, 1992. Then neither employed nor furthering his education, Martinez continued living in Berkeley, and was arrested for public nudity by the city police. He fought those charges and won. It remained legal to walk around nude in Berkeley and he went further, attending a Berkeley city council meeting in the nude. The city adopted an anti-nudity ordinance in July 1993. Martinez and some of his supporters then attended another city council meeting naked and he became the first person arrested under the new city ordinance. He pleaded guilty to the misdemeanor charge and got two years probation. Later life Martinez began wearing clothes again and began to write a manuscript about his experiences. He traveled to Europe and studied judo. After his return to the United States and continued unemployment, he began to manifest symptoms of mental illness and he spent much of the decade following his period of national attention moving among halfway houses, psychiatric institutions, occasional homelessness, and jail, but never getting comprehensive treatment, his family said. Martinez showed signs of schizophrenia and was prescribed medication, but with little improvement. "It was an endless cycle of trying to get answers but never getting any," said his mother. "It was endless, endless, endless." On January 10, 2006, Martinez was arrested after a fight at a halfway house and charged with two counts of battery and one count of assault with a deadly weapon. He was placed in maximum-security custody in Santa Clara County Jail in San Jose, California. Death The last time Martinez was seen alive by his mother was three weeks before his death when she had visited him in jail. She recounted, "He was sad. He was tired. He said he had enough. I alerted everyone, but nothing happened." On the evening of his death, a guard checked on him at 11 p.m. and he was fine, but a few minutes later other inmates reported hearing sounds coming from his cell. An officer returned at 11:19 and found Martinez unconscious. The 33-year-old Martinez was found with a plastic bag around his head. He was taken to Santa Clara Valley Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead of suicide on May 18, 2006. Martinez's funeral was held on May 25. A memorial for him was held May 27th at the People's Park in Berkeley. On November 12 of that year, a public memorial was held at a community recreation center in Cupertino. In 2009, his mother, Esther Krenn, settled a wrongful death lawsuit against Santa Clara County, which paid her $1 million and altered its policies so that family members would be notified in the event of a suicide attempt. See also Stephen Gough Naturism References External links Berkeley Municipal Code: Chapter 13.32: NUDITY IN PUBLIC PLACES "The Naked Guy", The New York Times Magazine profile/obituary, December 31, 2006 Andrew Martinez memorial site, with extensive interview 1972 births 2006 suicides 2006 deaths American naturists American people who died in prison custody Hispanic and Latino American activists People from Santa Clara County, California People who died by suicide in prison custody Prisoners who died in California detention Social nudity advocates Suicides in California University of California, Berkeley people
The Vancouver VooDoo were an inline hockey team based in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, which played in Roller Hockey International (RHI). The VooDoo were one of the original 12 teams to join the league in 1993. Founded and owned by Tiger Williams and Bill McMenamon, the team played in the PNE Agrodome in 1993 and 1994, the Pacific Coliseum in 1995. In 1996, the team played in General Motors Place after being sold to Orca Bay Sports and Entertainment, but folded in 1996. Season by season The Voodoo experienced consistent success in the regular season throughout their four-year history, winning their division all four years. Despite their regular season success, however, the Voodoo never made it out of the second round of the playoffs. 1993 In the RHI's inaugural season, Vancouver finished first in the King Division, atop the Calgary Rad'z, Portland Rage, and Utah Rollerbees, good for second overall, behind the Anaheim Bullfrogs. In the first round of the playoffs, they were eliminated by the division rival Calgary Rad'z 8–7. Star forward Jose Charbonneau, a former NHLer, led the RHI in regular season scoring with 68 points in 14 games. He attracted the attention of the NHL's Vancouver Canucks, who resigned him, despite having previously released Charbonneau in 1989. Charbonneau went on to play 33 more games for the Canucks before finishing his career in Europe. Team co-owner and head coach Tiger Williams, who holds the NHL career mark for penalty minutes, played in one game for the Voodoo and registered two points, with a goal and an assist, plus two penalty minutes. Playing at the PNE Agrodome, the Voodoo's average attendance was 3,800. 1994 As league expansion doubles the league's team total to 24, the Voodoo are placed in the new Northwest Division with the Calgary Rad'z, Phoenix Cobras, Portland Rage, Edmonton Sled Dogs, and Sacramento River Rats. They finish atop their division, as well as second overall in the Western Conference, behind the Los Angeles Blades. The Voodoo's leading scorer was Ryan Harrison, who finished with 62 points in 22 games, good for 15th overall in the league. In the playoffs, the Voodoo were once again defeated in the first round, ousted by Portland in two games; the VooDoo lost the first game in an 8-7 shootout at Portland before being eliminated in game two in Vancouver by a score of 14-8. The Voodoo's average attendance rises to 4,600 as they begin playing games at the Pacific Coliseum – in close vicinity to the PNE Agrodome – as well. 1995 The Voodoo finish atop their division and second in their conference for the third straight season. Ryan Harrison leads Vancouver in scoring again with 63 points in 24 games, 15th overall in the league once more. In the playoffs, Vancouver makes it out of the first round for the first time, defeating the Oakland Skates by a score of 10-4. The playoff bid was halted in the second round by the San Jose Rhinos, the inevitable Murphy Cup champions. As the Voodoo fully relocated to the Pacific Coliseum, their average attendance rose again to nearly 5,300, third-highest in the league. 1996 The Voodoo relocated again to the Vancouver Canucks' home stadium General Motors Place, and the average attendance peaks at 5,500. Vancouver's Doug Ast finished second overall in the league in regular season scoring with 91 points in 28 games. Vancouver won their division for the fourth consecutive season, but are eliminated in the second round in three games by the Anaheim Bullfrogs. At the end of the 1996 season, the Vancouver Voodoo franchise folded after four years. Regular season records For the four seasons played by the VooDoo, the team's regular season records were: External links RHI Season Archives References Roller Hockey International teams Voo Sports clubs and teams established in 1993 Sports clubs and teams disestablished in 1996 1993 establishments in British Columbia 1996 disestablishments in British Columbia
Shopping channels (also known in British English as teleshopping) are a type of television program or specialty channel devoted to home shopping. Their formats typically feature live presentations and demonstrations of products, hosted by on-air presenters and other spokespeople who provide a sales pitch for the product. Viewers are also instructed on how they can order the product. Shopping channels may focus primarily on mainstream merchandise, or more specialized categories such as high-end fashion and jewelry. The term can also apply to channels whose programming consists exclusively of direct-response advertising and infomercials. The concept was first popularized in the United States in the 1980s, when Lowell "Bud" Paxson and Roy Speer launched a local cable channel known as the Home Shopping Club—which later launched nationally as the Home Shopping Network (HSN). It later gained competition from QVC, who would eventually acquire HSN in 2017. Home shopping channels originally relied on telephone ordering, but have since been required to emphasize online shopping as part of their business models in order to compete with online-only competitors (while distinguishing themselves with their use of on-air pitches and offers to entice potential customers). In 2015, QVC acquired the retailer Zulily in an effort to expand its presence in online retail. ShopHQ is another US-based shopping channel. Outside of the US, few of the notable shopping channels are TV Shop, QVC UK in Europe, The Shopping Channel in New Zealand, Shop TV in Philippines and TSC in Canada. References Non-store retailing
The Turgay ([torɣai] "Tour-GUY") (also known as Torgai, Torghay or Turgai; , Romanised: Torğai; Romanised: Turgay) is a river in Kazakhstan. It has a length of and a drainage basin of . The Naurzum Nature Reserve is a protected area located in the river basin. Course The river originates at the confluence of the Zhaldama and Kara-Turgai rivers, which have their sources in the Kazakh Uplands. It then flows along the Turgay Depression. The Turgay disappears in the endorheic basin of Shalkarteniz. The Ubagan, a tributary of the Tobol, drains the valley to the north, the Turgay to the south. There are many shallow, often salty lakes in the valley. In the summer it dries up and its water becomes salty in the lower reaches of certain sections. The river is mostly fed by snow. It freezes in November and thaws in April. Tributaries The main tributaries of the Turgay are the long Irgiz, the long Kara-Turgay and the Kobarga on the left, as well as the Zhaldama, Tokanay and Ulkayak on the right. In years of high water the long Saryozen river may flow across lake Sarykopa into the Turgay through a channel near Tauysh village. See also List of rivers of Kazakhstan Lakes of the lower Turgay and Irgiz References Rivers of Kazakhstan Shalkarteniz basin
Turgay is a Turkish given name for males. People named Turgay include: Turgay Avcı, Turkish Cypriot politician Turgay Bahadır, Turkish-Austrian footballer Turgay Gemicibasi, Turkish footballer Turgay Semercioğlu, Turkish footballer Turgay Şeren, Turkish football manager Turgay may also refer to: Turgay (river), a river in northern Kazakhstan Turgay Depression, a structural basin in Kazakhstan Turgay Plateau, in northern Kazakhstan Turgay Oblast (Russian Empire), a former administrative division See also Tugay (disambiguation) Turgai (disambiguation) Turkish masculine given names Masculine given names
Heinrich Johann Nepomuk von Crantz (Roodt-sur-Eisch, Luxembourg, 25 November 1722 – 18 January 1799, Judenburg, Austria) was a botanist and a physician. In 1750 he obtained his doctorate of medicine in Vienna, where he was a pupil of Gerard van Swieten (1700–1772). He studied obstetrics in Paris and London. In Paris he was influenced by André Levret (1703–1780) and Nicolas Puzos (1686–1753). He was first married to Anna Susanne Petrasch and then to Magda Lena de Tremon. He had two sons and one daughter. He became a lecturer in obstetrics at St. Mary's Hospital in Vienna in 1754. From 1756 to 1774, he taught physiology and materia medica at the university in that city. He was the author of: Einleitung in eine wahre und gegründete Hebammenkunst (1756). Commentarius de rupto in partus doloribus a foetu utero (1756). Commentatio de instrumentorum in arte obstetricia historia utilitate et recta ac praepostera applicatione (1757). De systemate irritabilitatis (1761). Materia medica et chirurgica (three volumes, 1762) (Vol. 1 - 3 1765 Digital edition by the University and State Library Düsseldorf) De aquis medicatis principatus Transsylvaniae (1773). Die Gesundbrunnen der Österreichischen Monarchie (1777). He recommended better methods of hygiene for midwives. In addition to his work in medicine, he studied chemistry, botany, and the sources of mineral water. The plant genus Crantzia (Gesneriaceae) was named for him by Thomas Nuttall. References 1722 births 1797 deaths 18th-century Austrian physicians 18th-century Austrian botanists Edlers of Austria Alumni of the Athénée de Luxembourg Austrian people of Luxembourgian descent University of Vienna alumni
Dodge Cove is a small unincorporated community of fewer than 100 people, located on Digby Island, British Columbia, Canada across from the city of Prince Rupert. In April 2015, the community had an estimated total of 29 residents. Dodge Cove does not have paved roads, automobiles or shopping centres, and was named in 1907 after George Blanchard Dodge. It was built over a Tsimshian village named Kanagatsiyot. A commercial ferry service has been proposed to service the area and other nearby communities. In contemporary times, construction of a liquefied natural gas facility was proposed, which some of the community's residents oppose. Overview Life is simple in Dodge Cove, with no paved roads, no stores or shopping centres, and no automobiles. It has been estimated to be among the ten smallest unincorporated communities in British Columbia. Some community residents commute to work at Prince Rupert by crossing Prince Rupert Harbour. Westcoast Launch is the water-taxi provider for residents and visitors. The taxi runs a few days per week, the schedule is season dependent. /> Community residents voted against the installation of a water filtration system in 2011 per concerns of "unaffordable user fees", and have been advised since 1988 to boil their water. History Dodge Cove was named in 1907 by the Canadian Department of Marine and Fisheries, Ottawa, after George Blanchard Dodge of the Dominion Land Survey, who had surveyed Prince Rupert Harbour in 1906 for the Canadian federal government. The community was built over a Tsimshian village named Kanagatsiyot, which occupied the location for thousands of years. According to the mythology of the Tsimshian, this village was the birthplace of Txamsem, the Tsimshian trickster. Circa 1915, a salted herring business was run in Dodge Cove by Lionel Crippen. Today Ferry service proposal In March 2015, a proposal for a commercial ferry service between Prince Rupert and Dodge Cove, Oona River and Hunt's Inlet was presented to Des Nobels, the director of Dodge Cove, and Karl Bergman, director of Oona River. The proposal was based upon a request by the Skeena-Queen Charlotte Regional District for a report to be devised to look into the potential of a ferry service, which was researched and written by researcher Debra Febril. The community directors then proceeded to engage in their communities to determine interest among the people using a Community Needs Assessment Survey. The proposal delineates year-round ferry service with a minimum of four weekly round-trips to Dodge Cove and three to Oona River and Hunt's Inlet. Vessel size was recommended by the regional district to carry at least 12 passengers along with additional room for freight and cargo. The report summarized that the respective communities and region would directly benefit from such a ferry service, and that the provision of a reliable, affordable and sustainable ferry system would be reliant upon balancing the needs of private and public entities. Annual revenue projections for the proposed ferry service to Dodge Cove are estimated to be $18,720–$22,464 for round-trip service five days a week, and around $86,112 for the round-trip service to Oona River and Hunts Inlet. Proposed LNG facility In September 2015, Dodge Cove residents voiced concerns about the proposed construction of a liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility by Aurora LNG on Digby Island. Aurora LNG is a joint venture among Nexen Energy and INPEX Gas British Columbia Ltd. Residents expressed concerns due to the proposed site's close proximity to the community and for the potential of the project to adversely affect the area's water supply and wetlands. Residents were also concerned about the facility separating the community from Lake Wahl. One survey found that 96% of the community's residents were opposed to the proposed project. Residents cited standards developed by the Society of International Gas Tanker and Terminal Operators, which recommend a 2.2 mile minimum hazard-free zone from LNG operations and carriers such as tankers, and demanded that the Government of British Columbia adhere to these standards. In September 2014, 36 Dodge Cove residents signed a petition that was against the proposed facility and operations, which stated in part that the project would "alter our lives and community irreparably". Community director Des Nobels stated that preliminary activities performed by Nexen Energy, which is working to determine the feasibility of the LNG operation and performing environmental assessments, has disrupted life for community members due to helicopter traffic over the community. In response, Nexen stated that they would meet with community members regarding this matter. References Further reading External links Dodge Cove Arts Guild Unincorporated settlements in British Columbia Populated places in the North Coast Regional District Designated places in British Columbia Populated places established in 1907 1907 establishments in British Columbia
In linguistics, a triphone is a sequence of three consecutive phonemes. Triphones are useful in models of natural language processing where they are used to establish the various contexts in which a phoneme can occur in a particular natural language. See also Diphone References Natural language processing Phonology
Government House of Nova Scotia is the official residence of the lieutenant governor of Nova Scotia, as well as that in Halifax of the Canadian monarch. It stands in the provincial capital at 1451 Barrington Street; unlike other provincial Government Houses in Canada, this gives Nova Scotia's royal residence a prominent urban setting, though it is still surrounded by gardens. History Construction of Government House was ordered in 1800 by then governor Sir John Wentworth to replace the existing Government House that stood on the present location of Province House, with the cornerstone of the former being laid on 1 September of that year. The site had originally been purchased by the Crown as the location for a new colonial legislature, but it was eventually deemed to be too far removed from the capital, and was allocated for use as a viceregal residence instead. The Governor and his family moved into the still incomplete building in 1805. On 8 March 1834, Lieut. Col. James Fullarton, C.B., K. H. died at Government House and was later buried at the Old Burying Ground (Halifax, Nova Scotia). The first royal resident was Prince Edward, Prince of Wales (later King Edward VII), in 1860, who was followed by others such as Prince Arthur, Duke of Connaught and Strathearn, in 1869 (he would also serve as Governor General of Canada); Prince George (later King George V) in 1883 and 1901; Prince Albert in 1913 and again in 1939 as King George VI, along with his wife, Queen Elizabeth, who returned as the Queen Mother in 1967 for the Canadian Centennial and in 1979; their daughters, Princess Elizabeth, Duchess of Edinburgh, in 1951 and again in 1959, 1976, 1994 and 2010 as Queen Elizabeth II, and Princess Margaret, Countess of Snowdon, in 1958 and 1988; Elizabeth II's children, Prince Andrew in 1985 and Prince Edward in 1987, as well as Prince Charles, Prince of Wales, in 1983, accompanied by Diana, Princess of Wales. The mansion was also the gathering place for the various ministers of finance attending the 1995 G7 summit in Halifax. A fire erupted in the mansion's attic in 1854; however, the blaze was kept under control due to the fireproofing precautions taken during the design and construction of the edifice. Government House was not well maintained in the latter half of the 20th century. As one of the oldest official residences in Canada, Government House was designated a National Historic Site of Canada in 1982. The following year, the provincial government, under the Heritage Property Act, listed the house and its gardens as a Provincially Registered Property, in recognition of its Georgian architecture and its association with the various lieutenant governors since 1805 and the Canadian monarchy. The property was not well maintained, regardless, and it underwent extensive renovation and restoration for three years prior to the end of 2008; the building was rededicated by Queen Elizabeth II on 28 June 2010. At the same time, a new Royal Key was inaugurated; it was presented to the Queen and then returned at the end of her tour of Canada, so as to be granted to future lieutenant governors. Nova Scotia's Government House is presently the oldest viceregal residence in North America. Use Government House is owned by the King in Right of Nova Scotia and is open to the public at certain times. It is also where members of the Canadian Royal Family and visiting foreign dignitaries are greeted and often stay while in Halifax, as well as the location of numerous royal and viceroyal events, such as the bestowing of provincial awards or inductions into the Order of Nova Scotia, luncheons, dinners, receptions, and speaking engagements. It is at Government House that the lieutenant governor will drop the writs of election, swear-in new members of the Executive Council, and hold audience with his premier. In 2016 the Lieutenant Governor of Nova Scotia John James Grant hosted the annual conference of the Governor General, Lieutenant Governors and Territorial Commissioners at Government House. Architecture and art Government House's overall style is one of Georgian with hints of Adam, elements of the main and rear facades having been taken from a book of house plans published in 1795 by George Richardson, a former employee of Robert and James Adam. Many of the materials, however, were acquired locally; the stone came from Antigonish, Bedford Basin, Cape Breton, Lockeport, Lunenburg, and Pictou, brick from Dartmouth, and pine from the Annapolis Valley, Cornwallis, and Tatamagouche. Imported materials came from New Brunswick, Newfoundland, England, and Scotland; notably, the marble fireplace mantles were made in London. These adorned an interior arranged for both entertaining and state business, including a drawing room, dining room, and ballroom for formal entertaining, as well a suite for the governor, his family, and servants. At the time, Nova Scotia had no equal in design and decoration. Hung throughout the building are a number of portraits by Robert Field. See also Government Houses in Canada Government Houses of the British Empire and Commonwealth List of oldest buildings and structures in Halifax, Nova Scotia References Further reading External links Buildings and structures in Halifax, Nova Scotia Politics of Nova Scotia National Historic Sites in Nova Scotia Nova Scotia Tourist attractions in Halifax County, Nova Scotia Houses in Nova Scotia Royal residences in Canada
Harry Everett "Bud" Abell (born December 21, 1940) is a former American football linebacker in the American Football League (AFL) for the Kansas City Chiefs. He played college football at the University of Missouri. Early years Abell was born in Kansas City, Missouri and attended Southeast High School. He accepted a football scholarship from the University of Missouri. As a sophomore, he became a starter at right defensive end. He was a two-way player and also was an offensive end. Professional career Abell was selected by the Kansas City Chiefs in the 23rd round (178th overall) of the 1964 AFL Draft with a future draft pick, which allowed the team to draft him before his college eligibility was over. He was also selected by the Dallas Cowboys in the 17th round (228th overall) of the 1964 NFL Draft. On June 1, 1965, he signed with the Kansas City Chiefs. He was converted into an outside linebacker during training camp. On September 2, the Chiefs claimed rookie Chuck Hurston, placing Abell on the injury deferred list to make room for him. In 1966, he participated in his first regular season as a part of the team that won the AFL Championship and that played in Super Bowl I. The next year, he became a starter after E. J. Holub was injured. In 1968, he returned to a reserve role after he was passed on the depth chart by rookie Jim Lynch. That season he recorded his only 2 career interceptions. On August 25, 1969, he was traded to the Denver Broncos in exchange for a conditional draft choice (not exercised). He was released by the Broncos on September 9. References 1940 births Living people Players of American football from Kansas City, Missouri American football linebackers Missouri Tigers football players Kansas City Chiefs players American Football League players
The Pomme de Terre River (pronounced pohm de TEHR) is a tributary of the Osage River in southwestern Missouri in the United States. Via the Osage and Missouri rivers, it is part of the watershed of the Mississippi River. Pomme de terre is French for potato, a food Indians harvested in the area. Before the French explorers, the Osage people, who were historically indigenous to the region, had called it a name meaning Big Bone River, referring to the fossils of mastodons and other ancient creatures which they found along its eroding banks. Course The Pomme de Terre River is formed in Greene County in the Ozarks by the confluence of its short north and south forks, which rise in Webster and Greene counties, respectively. The river flows generally northward through Dallas, Polk, Hickory and Benton counties, past the town of Hermitage. In Polk County it collects the short Little Pomme de Terre River, which rises in Greene County and flows generally northwestwardly. In Hickory County a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers dam causes the river to form Pomme de Terre Lake. It enters the Osage River as an arm of Truman Lake, which is formed by a dam on the Osage. See also List of Missouri rivers References Rivers of Missouri Rivers of Benton County, Missouri Rivers of Dallas County, Missouri Rivers of Greene County, Missouri Rivers of Hickory County, Missouri Rivers of Polk County, Missouri Rivers of Webster County, Missouri Bodies of water of the Ozarks Tributaries of the Missouri River
Raymond Lewis Abruzzese Jr. (October 27, 1937 – August 22, 2011) was an American college and professional football player. Abruzzese was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. A defensive back, he played college football at the University of Alabama, and played professionally in the American Football League (AFL) for the Buffalo Bills from 1962 through 1964, when the Bills won the AFL Championship game, 20–7, over the defending AFL champion San Diego Chargers. He played for the AFL's New York Jets in 1965 and 1966. Abruzzese died in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, aged 73. He was one of at least 345 NFL players to be diagnosed after death with chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE), caused by repeated hits to the head. References See also List of American Football League players 1937 births 2011 deaths Players of American football from Philadelphia American football safeties Alabama Crimson Tide football players Buffalo Bills players New York Jets players American Football League players
Holy Family High School in Broomfield, Colorado, is a Roman Catholic college-preparatory high school located in the technology corridor between Denver and Boulder. The school is operated under the auspices of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Denver. History Holy Family High School was established in 1922 as a parish high school. The first commencement was held in 1926. Staffed by the Sisters of Loretto and dedicated lay teachers, the school added a second building in 1956 to meet the demands of increasing enrollment. In 1958 Holy Family changed its affiliation from a parish high school to an archdiocesan secondary school and was one of four Catholic high schools to serve the urban geographical region of North Denver. By the 1980s it was apparent that expansion to a new location was essential to continue its mission of educating young men and women. A site was secured by the school and the Archdiocese of Denver and the groundbreaking was held in March 1998. The doors to the new campus building were opened in August 1999 in sprawling Broomfield, Colorado. The new facility features a chapel, 22 classrooms, four science laboratories, a multimedia library, a wireless network, two technology centers, athletic practice and playing fields, and the lighted Mike G. Gabriel football stadium. In 2008, a new larger than life statue of the Holy Family was dedicated. In 2020 Holy Family added a 34,000 sq ft. addition including Engineering rooms, classrooms, a new Auxiliary gym, and renovated many of its other facilities. Holy Family has 65 faculty members, giving the school a 11:1 student/faculty ratio. Over 75% of the faculty holds a Master's or other advanced degrees. Over $1 million of tuition assistance and scholarships were awarded for the 2020-2021 school year. (42% of the student body). Academics A total of 30 credits are required for graduation for the class of 2023. An Honors Diploma is earned by acquiring 30 or more credits with a 4.0 GPA or better in a curriculum which includes at least eight honors or advanced placement courses and completion of a summary project. Apostolic Ministry is required of each student, beginning with service to family, school and culminating with two years of service experience outside the school. Spiritual Retreats are held for every class level and Holy Family juniors participate in the Kairos retreat program. Prayer is an integral part of the daily experience. Masses are celebrated monthly for the entire school community. Optional weekly masses are celebrated on Thursday mornings. Small group masses are available frequently. Athletics The Holy Family Tigers compete in the Colorado High School Activities Association (CHSAA) at the 4A level of the Northern Colorado Athletic Conference. Team members must be academically eligible to participate. The Tigers have earned state titles in girls' basketball (2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2013, and 2014), boys' basketball (1976, 1998, and 2014), football (2002 and 2005), softball (2006 and 2018), girls' cross country (2012), girls' soccer (2021), and baseball (2010, 2013, and 2014). Fall sports: cross country, football, boys' golf, soccer, spirit team, softball, volleyball. Winter sports: girls' and boys' basketball, wrestling, Girls' Swimming, and spirit team. Spring sports: baseball, boys' and girls' lacrosse, track and field, girls' soccer, girls' tennis, girls' golf. Notable alumni Tom Tancredo, former five-term Republican U.S. Representative of Colorado's 6th congressional district from 1999 to 2009, 2008 presidential candidate, and Constitution candidate for Governor in 2010 election. References External links Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Denver Educational institutions established in 1922 Catholic secondary schools in Colorado Schools in Broomfield, Colorado 1922 establishments in Colorado
Kenneth Marshall Adamson (born October 12, 1938) is an American former professional football player who was a guard for the Denver Broncos of the American Football League (AFL) from 1960 through 1962. He played college football for the Notre Dame Fighting Itish. Playing with Denver, he was an AFL All-Star in 1961. References See also List of American Football League players American Football League All-Star players 1938 births Living people Denver Broncos (AFL) players American football offensive guards Notre Dame Fighting Irish football players Players of American football from Phoenix, Arizona
Sir William Mackinnon, 1st Baronet, (13 March 1823 – 22 June 1893) was a Scottish ship-owner and businessman who built up substantial commercial interests in India and East Africa. He established the British-India Steam Navigation Company and the Imperial British East Africa Company. Biography Early life He was born in Campbeltown, Argyll, and after starting in the grocery trade there, went to Glasgow and worked for a merchant who had Asian trading interests. Career Mackinnon went to India in 1847 and joined an old schoolfriend, Robert Mackenzie, in the coasting trade, carrying merchandise from port to port around the Bay of Bengal. Together they formed the firm of Mackinnon Mackenzie & Co and Mackinnon chose to make Cossipore the base for his own activities. In 1856, he founded the shipping company Calcutta and Burma Steam Navigation Company, which would become British India Steam Navigation Company in 1862. It grew into a huge business trading round the coasts of the Indian Ocean, extending its operations to Burma, the Persian Gulf and the east coast of Africa, from Aden to Zanzibar. In 1865 he established Gray, Dawes and Company as a merchant partnership for his nephew Archibald Gray and Edwyn Sandys Dawes (1838–1903), knighted in 1894. The company, founded as a shipping and insurance agency in the City of London, went through several reorganizations and ownership changes, obtaining recognition as a merchant bank in 1915, becoming fully fledged as Gray Dawes Bank in 1973 (sold in 1983), and now known as Gray Dawes Group Ltd. In 1888, Mackinnon founded the Imperial British East Africa Company and became its Chairman. The company, supported by the United Kingdom government as a means of establishing British influence in the region, was committed to eliminating the slave trade, prohibiting trade monopoly, and equal treatment for all nations. The company would later be taken over by the British government and became the East Africa Protectorate. In 1889, Mackinnon was made 1st Baronet of Strathaird and Loup. Mackinnon promoted Henry Morton Stanley's Emin Pasha Relief Expedition, first enlisting Stanley, then writing to government ministers including Lord Iddesleigh, the Foreign Secretary, and enlisting friends to form a committee which could oversee the expedition and meet more than half the cost. In 1891 he founded the Free Church of Scotland East African Scottish Mission. Death He died at the Burlington Hotel in London in 1893 and was buried at Clachan in Kintyre, near his home, Balinakill House. Legacy He and his nephew, Duncan MacNeil, left bequests which were used to start the Mackinnon MacNeil Trust with a mandate to "provide a decent education to deserving Highland lads". The trustees purchased the former estate of James Nicol Fleming on Keil Point, Southend, Kintyre, including Keil House, and set up the Kintyre Technical School. After only nine years a fire destroyed the building and the school, renamed Keil School, moved to Helenslee House in Dumbarton where it continued until 2000. Following the closure of the school, and the sale of the land, the Mackinnon MacNeil Trust was able to continue to help young people and exists now to give bursaries to students from the Western Highlands and Islands going to university. The Trust is still chaired by a member of the Mackinnon family. In 1890, a statue dedicated to Sir William Mackinnon was erected in Mombasa, Kenya. It was later moved to the Dunbarton School in 1964, and finally moved again and re-erected in Campbelltown in 2004. References Archives The papers of Sir William Mackinnon (PP MS 1) are held by Archives and Special Collections at the School of Oriental and African Studies, London. Further reading J. Forbes Munro, Maritime Enterprise and Empire: Sir William Mackinnon and His Business Network, 1823–1893 (2003) John S. Galbraith, Mackinnon and East Africa 1878–1895 (Cambridge 1972) Sir William Mackinnon Kintyre Magazine BI Ship (British India Steam Navigation) site 1823 births 1893 deaths Baronets in the Baronetage of the United Kingdom People from Campbeltown 19th-century Scottish businesspeople Scottish businesspeople in shipping Scottish people of the British Empire Companions of the Order of the Indian Empire Fellows of the Royal Scottish Geographical Society British people in colonial India
The following is a list of the highest-income ZCTAs in the United States. ZCTAs or ZIP Code Tabulation Areas are the census equivalent of ZIP codes used for statistical purposes. The reason why regular ZIP codes are not used is because they are defined by routes rather than geographic boundaries. Thus, they have the tendency to overlap and otherwise create difficulties. ZIP Code Tabulations are not exact, they are only near approximations. ZCTAs ranked by median household income ZCTAs with median household incomes in excess of $150,000 ZCTAs ranked by per capita income References United States demography-related lists Income in the United States ZIP code
Benjamin James Agajanian (August 28, 1919 – February 8, 2018), nicknamed "the Toeless Wonder", was an American football player, primarily a placekicker in the National Football League (NFL), the All-America Football Conference (AAFC) and American Football League (AFL). Early life Born in Santa Ana, California, he graduated from San Pedro High School in the San Pedro community in Los Angeles. A placekicker, he played college football at Compton Junior College and the University of New Mexico in Albuquerque. He served in the U.S. Army Air Forces during World War II as a physical training instructor. While playing in college, Agajanian had four toes of his kicking foot crushed in a work accident and then amputated in 1939, Pro football career Agajanian played professionally in the National Football League from 1945 through 1959, then in the newly formed American Football League for the Los Angeles/San Diego Chargers in 1960, 1961, and 1964. He also played for the Dallas Texans in 1961 and the Oakland Raiders in 1962. He is one of two players (the other was Hardy Brown) who played in the All-America Football Conference, the American Football League, and the National Football League. He was pro football's third kicking specialist (after Jack Manders and Mose Kelsch), booting field goals for 10 different professional teams in the 1940s, 1950s and 1960s, including two NFL champions: the New York Giants in 1956 and the Green Bay Packers in 1961. In the 1956 title game, he went 5-for-6 on extra points and 2-for-3 on field goals, while in the 1960 title game he was perfect on extra points (one) and field goals (three). He led the league in field goal attempts in 1947 (24) and 1954 (25) and also led in made field goals (15) in the former. Later life After retiring from the field at age 45, he was the Dallas Cowboys kicking coach for 20 years. He also coached Chicago Bears kicker Mac Percival for the 1968 season. Agajanian died in Cathedral City, California, on February 8, 2018, at age 98. His older brother was the late Motorsports promoter J. C. Agajanian. See also History of the New York Giants (1925–78) List of American Football League players History of the Armenian Americans in Los Angeles References External links Ben Agajanian, the oldest living Los Angeles Ram at 96, gets a real kick out of their return to L.A. "Ben Agajanian, Square-Shoed Kicking Star, Dies at 98," by RICHARD GOLDSTEIN, The New York Times, Feb. 13, 2018 1919 births 2018 deaths American football placekickers Players of American football from Los Angeles Dallas Cowboys coaches Dallas Texans (AFL) players Green Bay Packers players Los Angeles Chargers players Los Angeles Dons players New Mexico Lobos football players New York Giants players Oakland Raiders players Philadelphia Eagles players Pittsburgh Steelers players San Diego Chargers players Players of American football from Santa Ana, California American people of Armenian descent American Football League players United States Army Air Forces personnel of World War II United States Army Air Forces soldiers San Pedro High School alumni
Cola de mono or Colemono (literally, monkey's tail) is a traditional Chilean drink served around Christmas time. It is similar to a White Russian. Although there are many versions of this drink, it contains mainly aguardiente, milk, sugar, coffee, and cloves. A virgin version can be made simply without the alcohol. Etymology There are several theories surrounding the origin of the name. Since this drink is homemade, it was originally bottled in bottles whose labels were from the company Anís del Mono. Eventually the play on words of cola de mono was created. The more accepted theory, however, is related to President Pedro Montt, nicknamed El Mono Montt, or Monkey Montt. During an evening party, Montt prepared to leave and asked for his revolver, a Colt. He was convinced to stay and continue on with the festivities. After all of the wine was drunk and the guests still thirsty for more, mixed milk, coffee, aguardiente, and sugar. Within time, the drink gained popularity and was dubbed "Colt de Montt", eventually morphing into "Cola de Mono" and later "Colemono", which is the name used in the "RAE" dictionaries and in common speech. References See also Chilean alcoholic drinks Christmas food
A weekend warrior is someone who engages in sports or outdoor pursuits at the weekend. Weekend warrior may also refer to: Music Weekend Warrior (album), an album by Biz Markie in 2003 Weekend Warriors (album), an album by Ted Nugent in 1978 "Weekend Warrior", a song by Iron Maiden from Fear of the Dark in 1992 "Weekend Warrior", a song by Ministry from Relapse in 2012 "Weekend Warriors", a song by Uriah Heep from Head First in 1983 "Weekend Warriors", a song by A Change Of Pace from Prepare the Masses in 2006 Other media Weekend Warrior, a computer game developed by Pangea Software Weekend Warriors (film), a 1986 comedy "Weekend Warriors", an episode of the TV series Psych Weekend Warriors, a program broadcase by HGTV Canada Weekend Warriors MMA, a mobile game developed by MDickie Other uses A nickname for the visitors of the Defqon.1 Festival See also
The Kolomoki Mounds is one of the largest and earliest Woodland period earthwork mound complexes in the Southeastern United States and is the largest in Georgia. Constructed from 350CE to 600CE, the mound complex is located in southwest Georgia, in present-day Early County near the Chattahoochee River. The mounds were designated as a National Historic Landmark in 1964. Seven of the eight mounds are protected as part of Kolomoki Mounds State Historic Park. Site characteristics Kolomoki Mounds State Park is an important archaeological site as well as a scenic recreational area. Kolomoki, covering some three hundred acres, is one of the larger preserved mound sites in the USA. In the early millennium of the Common Era, Kolomoki, with its surrounding villages, Native American burial mounds, and ceremonial plaza, was a center of population and activity in North America. The eight visible mounds of earth in the park were built between 250-950 CE by peoples of the Swift Creek and Weeden Island cultures. These mounds include Georgia's oldest great temple mound, built on a flat platform top; two burial mounds, and four smaller ceremonial mounds. As with other mound complexes, the people sited and built the earthworks according to a complex cosmology. Researchers have noted that several mounds are aligned according to astronomical events. For example, mounds A, D, and E, which form the central axis of the site, align with the sun at the spring equinox. Mounds F and D form an alignment with the sun at the summer solstice. Soils at the Park are mostly dark red sandy loams or loamy sands of the Americus, Greenville, and Red Bay series. Some pale brown sands of the Troup series occur on the western shores of Kolomoki Lake, and at the northern end of the lake is brown or dark gray alluvial loam of the Herod-Muckalee soil association. Archaeological features Temple Mound The Temple Mound is high and measures 325 by at the base. Research indicates that it would have taken over two million basket loads carried by individual workers, each holding one cubic foot of earth, to build this mound. The southern half of the mound is three feet higher and was probably the temple platform. From the top of the steps, most of the Kolomoki Archaeological Area can be viewed. Approximately 1,500 - 2,000 residents lived in a village of thatched houses that were built around the large plaza in the center of the complex. It was a place for public ceremonial activities and rituals, including games. Mound D Mound D is one of the eight visible mounds at the Kolomoki site. It is a conical mound that is high from the ground. It is centrally located at Kolomoki. Archeologists discovered the remains of 77 burials and ceremonial pottery here. The effigy pottery discovered was shaped in various animal and bird shapes, such as deer, quail and owls. Mound D was constructed in several stages, each time increasing in size. It began as a square-platform mound that was about tall. This original platform mound was built from yellow clay. Sixty pottery vessels were placed on the east wall including the above effigy pottery. After many subsequent burials and the addition of more yellow clay in layers, the mound was shaped as a larger circular mound about tall. These burials took place on the eastern side of the mound, and the skulls face eastward, the direction of the rising sun, apparently for religious reasons. Burial objects made from iron and copper and pearl beads were included as ceremonial objects with the burials. Finally, the entire mound was covered with red clay. Museum The park's museum was built to incorporate part of an excavated mound; it provides an authentic setting for viewing artifacts. The museum features a film about how this mound was built and excavated. In March 1974, a thief entered the museum at the park and stole more than 129 ancient pots and effigies, numerous arrowheads, and other treasures. Every artifact on display was stolen. Several years later, many of the pieces were recovered by police and dealers in Miami and St. Augustine, Florida. But, with more than 70 relics still missing, the Georgia Department of Natural Resources (DNR) has sought public help in recovering these artifacts. Archeologists believe the pots are somewhere in Georgia or Florida, perhaps held by dealers or private collectors. Park Manager Matt Bruner said, These pieces are an important part of North American history and should be properly protected for future generations to study. They have significant meaning to the Native American people because many were used during burial ceremonies, plus they represent some of the finest craftsmanship of the Kolomoki culture. He emphasized that the state is more interested in recovering the pots than prosecuting the people who have them. Gallery See also Etowah Indian Mounds Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park List of National Historic Landmarks in Georgia (U.S. state) National Register of Historic Places listings in Early County, Georgia References External links "Kolomoki Mounds State Park", Georgia State Parks Kolomoki PDF website about missing artifacts "Kolomoki Mounds Historic Park", Explore Southern History "Kolomoki" , New Georgia Encyclopedia The Kolomoki Indian Mounds historical marker "Kolomoki Mounds Archaeological Area", Georgia state historical marker "Kolomoki Mounds State Park", Georgia state historical marker Swift Creek culture Weeden Island culture Archaeological sites in Georgia (U.S. state) National Historic Landmarks in Georgia (U.S. state) State parks of Georgia (U.S. state) Archaeological museums in Georgia (U.S. state) Native American museums in Georgia (U.S. state) Museums in Early County, Georgia Protected areas established in 1964 Protected areas of Early County, Georgia Archaeological sites on the National Register of Historic Places in Georgia (U.S. state) Landforms of Early County, Georgia National Register of Historic Places in Early County, Georgia
Sixlets are small round candy-coated, chocolate-flavored candy made by Oak Leaf Confections, a Chocolat Frey company based in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. They are often sold in thin cellophane packages that hold them in a tube-like formation. The United States Food and Drug Administration recognized that Sixlets are safe for human consumption during a 1961 study. The ball-shaped candies come in colors that include red, brown, yellow, green, blue and orange. Each color is purported to add a slightly different taste than the others to the candy. An Easter variation of the candy adds white, pink, and blue pieces while removing red and brown ones from the mix. A Christmas variation has only red, green and white; and the Valentine's Day variation has red, pink, and white. Halloween versions are also sold, having orange, teal, purple, green, and black candies. At some specialty candy stores, Sixlets can be found sold loose by weight in individually sorted colors not found in the typical variety- lime green, black, pink, etc.- in the same way that M&M's are popularizing designer color selection. They are also packaged for sale as decoration for baked goods. History Sixlets have existed since at least 1960 and were originally made by Leaf Brands. A candy brand with a similar name that was also made by Leaf in the 1960s was called Fivesomes. Fivesomes were a miniature version of Whoppers that, like Sixlets, also came in cellophane wrapping. In 1996, Hershey purchased the North American confectionery operations of Leaf, Inc., including such brands as Jolly Rancher, Heath Bar, Whoppers, Chuckles, Milk Duds and Sixlets. In 2003, Hershey Foods Corporation sub-licensed their rights to the Sixlets brand name to SweetWorks Confections LLC. One hypothesis for the name's origin is that the candy, when originally manufactured, was sold six for a penny in a bubble gum-like machine. Although the candies are currently sold in a variety of packages, the most comparable to the original is an eight-ball cellophane pack sold in bags containing several servings. A six-ball tube was introduced in 2017. References External links Sixlets Corporate webpage Canadian confectionery
The were Japanese suicide motorboats developed during World War II. They were part of the wider Japanese Special Attack Units program. History Towards the end of 1943, in response to unfavorable progress in the war, the Japanese high command heard suggestions for various suicide craft. These suggestions were initially rejected as "defeatist" but later deemed necessary. For the naval department this meant kamikaze planes, kaiten submarines, fukuryu suicide divers or human mines, and shinyo suicide boats. Characteristics These fast motorboats were driven by one man, to speeds of around . They were typically equipped with a bow-mounted charge of up to of explosives that could be detonated by either impact or from a manual switch in the driver's area. These attack boats also carried two anti-ship rockets mounted on launchers located on either side of the boat behind the driver. The similar Maru-Ni, which were used by the Imperial Japanese Army, were equipped with two depth charges, and were not actually suicide boats, as the idea was to drop the depth charges and then turn around before the explosion took place. Although the chances of the boat and crew surviving the wave from the explosion might seem slim, a small number of crewmen successfully escaped. The depth charges used were known as the Experimental Manufacture Use 120 kg Depth Charge, and were armed by a delayed-action pull igniter. The program began in March 1944. The first vessels were tested on 27 May, after which it was decided that the original steel hull design would be replaced by a wooden hull due to the Japanese steel shortage. On 1 August, 150 students, on average 17 years old, elected to begin training for the Shinyo. 6,197 Shinyo boats were produced for the Imperial Japanese Navy and 3,000 Maru-ni for the Imperial Japanese Army. Around 400 boats were transported to Okinawa and Formosa, and the rest were stored on the coast of Japan for the ultimate defense against the expected invasion of the Home islands. The main operative use took place during the Philippines Campaign of 1944–45. Operational results January 10, 1945: Sinking of American ships USS LCI(G)-365 (Landing Craft Infantry – Gunboat), USS LCI(M)-974 (Landing Craft Infantry – Mortar) and crippling of USS War Hawk (an auxiliary transport) in Lingayen Gulf, Luzon, Philippines. January 31, 1945: Sinking of (Submarine chaser) off Nasugbu in Luzon, Philippines. February 16, 1945: Sinking of USS LCS(L)-7 (Landing Craft Support – Large), LCS(L)-26, and LCS(L)-49 off Mariveles, Corregidor Channel, Luzon. April 4, 1945: Sinking of USS LCI(G)-82 (Landing Craft Infantry – Gunboat) and (Landing Ship Medium) off Okinawa. April 9, 1945: Damaging of . April 27, 1945: Crippling of in Buckner Bay, Okinawa. May 4, 1945: Damaging of in the north end of Buckner Bay, Okinawa. See also List of Allied vessels struck by Japanese special attack weapons References Bibliography External links Japanese Suicide Weapons Explosive Motorboats based at Okinawa 1944–1945 World War II suicide weapons of Japan Minor warship classes Motorboats Ships built in Japan
Michael Brennan OAM (born 15 October 1975 in Toowoomba, Queensland) is a field hockey midfielder from Australia, who was a member of the team that won gold at the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens. Four years earlier, when Sydney hosted the Summer Games, he finished in third spot with The Kookaburras , as the men's national team is called. Michael Brennan has since gone on to become a multiple Group 1 winning horse trainer. References Profile on Hockey Australia External links https://smh.com.au/sport/racing/michael-brennan-going-for-gold-with-im-victorious-in-interdominion-final-20140301-33snn.html Living people 1975 births Australian male field hockey players Male field hockey midfielders Olympic field hockey players for Australia Olympic gold medalists for Australia Olympic bronze medalists for Australia 1998 Men's Hockey World Cup players Field hockey players at the 2000 Summer Olympics Field hockey players at the 2004 Summer Olympics Recipients of the Medal of the Order of Australia People educated at Trinity College, Perth Sportspeople from Toowoomba Olympic medalists in field hockey Medalists at the 2004 Summer Olympics Medalists at the 2000 Summer Olympics Commonwealth Games medallists in field hockey Commonwealth Games gold medallists for Australia Field hockey players at the 1998 Commonwealth Games Sportsmen from Queensland Field hockey people from Queensland Medallists at the 1998 Commonwealth Games
The Zee Cine Award Best Actor in a Supporting Role – Female is chosen by the viewers, and the winner is announced at the actual ceremony. The award is given in March, but the actress who wins it is awarded for her work from a movie released in the previous year from 1 January to 31 December. Sushmita Sen, Divya Dutta, Swara Bhaskar, and Shabana Azmi are the four actresses to have won this award twice to date. The most recent recipient is Sheeba Chaddha. Multiple wins Winners See also Zee Cine Awards Bollywood Cinema of India References Film awards for supporting actress International film awards Zee Cine Awards
The Holy Family High School is a private Catholic primary and secondary school for boys located in the suburb of East Andheri in Mumbai, in the state of Maharashtra, India. While the school is primarily English-medium, there is also a smaller Marathi-medium section that runs in parallel from the fifth to the tenth standard. The school now also has a junior college named Holy Family Junior College for 11th and 12th grade HSC students. The school is located near MIDC, Andheri East, Mumbai - 400093, Opposite MIDC building. History Holy Family High School was founded in 1944 as a parish institution in an old, single-storied structure by Fr. Denzil Keating, S.J. The school's first headmistress was Maud D'Costa. In 1963, another school building was constructed adjoining Holy Family Church. It was improved and extended with the help of student efforts such as donations, raffles, and school fêtes. A new hall and classrooms were constructed. This building lacked facilities such as filtered drinking water and a cafeteria. It had an inadequate playground and poor sports facilities, requiring the use of the Vinayalaya Jesuit seminary grounds, behind the school and church buildings. The building was extended in the 1970s to have multiple stories, with additional classrooms and a school hall. The school had female students for a few years. Some were admitted for year 11 science and commerce streams. Earlier in the school's history females were accepted at lower levels as well. A mini-stadium was built on the old school ground using funds donated by Jitendra Shah. A few years later, the building became too small to cater to the growing number of parishioners and the building was sold. A more spacious building was constructed, with its own playground on a nearby plot of land. On 22 October 1985, Fr. Lisbert D'Souza, S.J., (Provincial Superior of the Bombay Jesuits) blessed the foundation stone and on 16 July 1988 Bishop Ferdinand Fonseca blessed the new building. On 7 January 1989, under the tenure of Jesuit Frs. Tony J. D'Souza as vicar and Francis Gonsalves as principal, the new school building was formally inaugurated by Simon Cardinal Pimenta, the archbishop of Bombay. In 2005, the school added an amphitheatre and in 2009 a semi-olympic size swimming pool, both at the initiative of the school PTA. Craft and painting courses are offered. Class picnics are held once a year. A Parent-Teacher Association (PTA) was established in 1964. 50th anniversary In 1995, the school celebrated its 50th anniversary with a grand celebration including a fireworks display. In the large crowd attending were several of the school's former principals. A time capsule containing fifty years of school information was buried at the foot of the Holy Family statue to be reopened in the year 2045. 60th anniversary In 2005 the school celebrated its 60th anniversary. Under the initiative of the principal, Fr. Francis Swamy, S.J., and the school's PTA, a five-night fête was held on the school grounds. Celebrities were present for the occasion which was broadcast live on cable TV. Principals The following individuals have served as principal of the school: See also List of Jesuit schools List of schools in Mumbai Violence against Christians in India References External links Holy Family High School Holy Family High School (informal) Holy Family High School Parent-Teacher Association Holy Family Church Satellite view of Holy Family High School by Google Maps Jesuit secondary schools in India Jesuit primary schools in India Boys' schools in India Christian schools in Maharashtra High schools and secondary schools in Mumbai Educational institutions established in 1945 1945 establishments in India
Sarah Abitbol (born 8 June 1975) is a French former competitive pair skater. With skating partner Stéphane Bernadis, she is the 2000 World bronze medalist, the 2000 Grand Prix Final silver medalist, a seven-time European medalist (two silver and five bronze medals), and a ten-time French national champion. Early life and career Born in Nantes, France, Abitbol began skating at the age of six, choosing skating over swimming. She initially took lessons and practiced in that area. In 1992, at the age of 17, she teamed up with Stéphane Bernadis to compete in pair skating. Abitbol/Bernadis were coached by Jean-Roland Racle early in their career, followed by Stanislav Leonovich in Paris. At the 2000 World Championships in Nice, France, Bernadis said he was attacked by an unknown assailant with a razor on 28 March when he opened his hotel room door. He suffered an eight-inch cut down his left forearm. Bernadis said he had received a death threat three weeks earlier. At the event, he and Abitbol won the bronze medal, becoming the first French pair skaters to win a World medal since 1932, when Andrée Brunet / Pierre Brunet won gold in this competition. When Bernadis became injured after performing the short program, the pair had to withdraw from the 2001 World Championships. They qualified for the 2002 Olympics by winning the 2001 Golden Spin of Zagreb. Abitbol/Bernadis withdrew from the 2002 Olympics after Abitbol's Achilles tendon ruptured in practice; she underwent surgery and was off the ice for six months. After the 2003 European Championships, the pair changed coaches, moving to Jean-Christophe Simond. Abitbol/Bernadis worked on throw triple Axels. Personal life Abitbol married Jean-Louis Lacaille in 2009. Their daughter, Stella, was born in June 2011. In January 2020, Abitbol published a memoir, Such A Long Silence (Un si long silence). In it, she accused her former singles coach Gilles Beyer of sexual assault, stating it began in 1990 when she was 15 and continued over a period of two years. This triggered a scandal that led to the resignation that year of FFSG president Didier Gailhaguet over his alleged covering up of past allegations against Beyer, in addition to cover ups of other cases. While the assaults reported by Abitbol occurred outside the time limits of the statutes of limitations, Beyer was subsequently charged with sexual assault and harassment in cases relating to six other students who came forward with allegations of more recent events. In addition, Sports Minister Roxana Mărăcineanu ordered a broader investigation of the prevalence of sexual abuse in French sports culture. This concluded with reports of misconduct by more than 400 individuals. Programs (with Bernadis) Results with Bernadis GP: Champions Series / Grand Prix See also List of select Jewish figure skaters References External links Official website of Abitbol / Bernadis 1975 births Olympic figure skaters for France Figure skaters at the 1998 Winter Olympics French female pair skaters Living people Jewish French sportspeople World Figure Skating Championships medalists European Figure Skating Championships medalists Sportspeople from Nantes
Mimolette is a cheese traditionally produced around the city of Lille, France. In France it is also known as Boule de Lille after its city of origin, or vieux Hollande because it was originally inspired by the Dutch Edam cheese. Description Mimolette has a spherical shape and is similar in appearance to a cantaloupe melon. It normally weighs about 2 kg (approximately 4.5 pounds) and is made from cow's milk. Its name comes from the French word mi-mou (feminine mi-molle), meaning "semi-soft", which refers to the oily texture of this otherwise hard cheese. The bright orange color of the cheese comes from the natural seasoning, annatto. When used in small amounts, primarily as a food colorant, annatto adds no discernible flavor or aroma. The grey-colored rind of aged Mimolette occurs from cheese mites that are added to the surface of the cheese, which serve to enhance its flavor. Mimolette can be consumed at different stages of aging. When younger, its taste resembles that of Parmesan. Many appreciate it most when it is "extra-old" (extra-vieille). At that point, it can become rather hard to chew, and the flesh takes on a hazelnut-like flavor. History It was originally made by the request of Louis XIV, who – in the context of Jean-Baptiste Colbert's mercantilistic policies – was looking for a native French product to replace the then very popular Edam. To make it distinct from Edam, it was first colored using carrot juice and later seasoned with annatto to give it a distinct orange color. The cheese was known to be a favorite of French President Charles de Gaulle. Health concerns in the U.S. In 2013, the Food and Drug Administration detained about a ton of the cheese, putting further imports to the United States on hold. This was because the cheese mites could cause an allergic reaction if consumed in large quantities. The FDA stated that the cheese was above the standard of six mites per cubic inch. The restriction was lifted in 2014. See also Milbenkäse Casu marzu List of cheeses Cuisine and specialties of Nord-Pas-de-Calais References French cheeses Cow's-milk cheeses Mites as food Lille
El Kala (, Latin Thinisa in Numidia) is a seaport of Algeria, in El Tarf Province, 56 miles (90 km) by rail east of Annaba and 10 miles (16 km) west of the Tunisian frontier. It is the centre of the Algerian and Tunisian coral fisheries and has an extensive industry in the curing of sardines. The harbor is small and exposed to the northeast and west winds. El Kala attracts tourists from within and outside the country, especially during the summer. It is home to an exceptional ecosystem and was declared a biosphere reserve by UNESCO in 1990. History Thinisa in Numidia was an ancient city in the Roman province of Numidia. It was important enough to become a bishopric. The old fortified town was built on a rocky peninsula about 400 metres long, connected with the mainland by a sand bank. French and Italian coral fishing companies were interested in the area from as early as 1553. A trade bastion called "Bastion de France" by its Corsican founders was established during that period principally for the exploitation of red coral and also to facilitate trade between southern France and that part of northern Algeria. The bastion was shut down and returned to the rule of the Bey of Constantine in 1816. After the occupation of La Calle by the French in 1836, a new town was built up along the coast. Titular see of Thinisa in Numidia In 1933, the Ancient diocese of Thinisa in Numidia was nominally restored as a Catholic titular see of the lowest (episcopal) rank. It has had the following incumbents: Francesco Venanzio Filippini, Friars Minor (O.F.M.) (1933.05.23 – 1973.03.31) Mario Revollo Bravo (1973.11.13 – 1978.02.28) (later Cardinal) Javier Lozano Barragán (1979.06.05 – 1984.10.28) (later Cardinal) Mario Picchi, Salesians (S.D.B.) (1989.06.19 – 1997.03.29) Vincenzo Pelvi (1999.12.11 – 2006.10.14) (later Archbishop of Foggia–Bovino) Laurent Chu Văn Minh, Auxiliary Bishop of Hanoi (Vietnam) (2008.10.15 – Present) . See also European enclaves in North Africa before 1830 References Sources External links El Kala GigaCatholic, with titular incumbent biographical links Mediterranean port cities and towns in Algeria Communes of El Taref Province El Taref Province
Stéphane Bernadis (, born 23 February 1974) is a French former pair skater. With skating partner Sarah Abitbol, he is the 2000 World bronze medalist, the 2000 Grand Prix Final silver medalist, a seven-time European medalist (two silver and five bronze medals), and a ten-time French national champion. Career Bernadis began skating at age eight because of his mother, English skater Donna Davies. He teamed up with Sarah Abitbol in 1992. Abitbol/Bernadis were coached by Jean-Roland Racle early in their career and then by Stanislav Leonovich in Paris. At the 2000 World Championships in Nice, France, Bernadis said he was attacked by an unknown assailant with a razor on March 28 when he opened his hotel room door – resulting in an eight-inch cut down his left forearm. Bernadis said he had received a death threat three weeks earlier. At the event, he and Abitbol won the bronze medal, becoming the first French pair skaters to win a World medal since Andrée Brunet / Pierre Brunet won gold in 1932. An injury to Bernadis led the pair to withdraw after the short program from the 2001 World Championships. They qualified for the 2002 Olympics by winning the 2001 Golden Spin of Zagreb. Abitbol/Bernadis withdrew from the 2002 Olympics after Abitbol's Achilles tendon ruptured in practice – she underwent surgery and was off the ice for six months. After the 2003 European Championships, the pair changed coaches, moving to Jean-Christophe Simond. Abitbol/Bernadis worked on throw triple Axels. Personal life Bernadis and his wife, Elisabeth, have a daughter named Ava. Programs (with Abitbol) Results with Abitbol GP: Champions Series / Grand Prix References External links Official website of Abitbol / Bernadis 1974 births Living people Sportspeople from Boulogne-Billancourt Olympic figure skaters for France Figure skaters at the 1998 Winter Olympics French male pair skaters French people of English descent World Figure Skating Championships medalists European Figure Skating Championships medalists
Sulphur Springs Municipal Airport is a city-owned, public-use airport located two nautical miles (4 km) northwest of the central business district of Sulphur Springs, a city in Hopkins County, Texas, United States. It is included in the National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems for 2011–2015, which categorized it as a general aviation facility. It was named Texas Airport of the Year for 2003 by the Texas Department of Transportation Aviation Division. Facilities and aircraft Sulphur Springs Municipal Airport covers an area of 197 acres (80 ha) at an elevation of 489 feet (149 m) above mean sea level. It has one runway designated 1/19 with a concrete surface measuring 5,001 by 75 feet (1,524 x 23 m). For the 12-month period ending March 7, 2009, the airport had 17,910 aircraft operations, an average of 49 per day: 97% general aviation, 3% military, and <1% air taxi. At that time there were 74 aircraft based at this airport: 88% single-engine, 8% multi-engine, 1% jet, 1% helicopter, and 1% ultralight. References External links Sulphur Springs Airport (City of Sulphur Springs website) at Texas DOT airport directory Aerial image as of February 1995 from USGS The National Map Airports in Texas Transportation in Hopkins County, Texas Buildings and structures in Hopkins County, Texas
Dolon Nor (; , Doloon nuur, seven lakes; also: To-lun, Dolonnur), is a town and the county seat of Duolun County, Xilin Gol League in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous region, China. It is of historical importance because the remnants of Shangdu, the summer capital of Kublai Khan and the following Mongol emperors of the Yuan dynasty (13th and 14th century), are located some 28 kilometers (17 miles) northwest of the modern town. Beginning in the 17th century, the Manchu emperors of the Qing dynasty developed the city as a religious center. In the Encyclopædia Britannica Eleventh Edition (1911), the city is described as follows: Another, longer description of the city is in writings of Évariste Huc (1813–1860), a Frenchman who stayed there in 1845 on his way to Lhasa (which he reached after 18 months of travelling). In 1933, the town was the object of fighting between the Japanese and their Manchukuoan puppet troops and the Chahar People's Anti-Japanese Army. See also Actions in Inner Mongolia (1933–36) References Populated places in Inner Mongolia
Langreo (; ) is a municipality and town in northern Spain, in Asturias. It is the 4th largest town of Asturias with 43,000 inhabitants. Langreo is located in the centre of Asturias, approximately south-east of Oviedo. It was an important mining and metallurgical center. In the neighbourhood fruit and cider are produced, and there are still important coal mines, foundries, and factories for the manufacture of coarse cloth. History According to a legend Langreo was the place where the Moorish governor Munuza was killed while trying to flee from Asturias at the beginning of the Reconquest. Langreo was settled by the Romans, who built a large Roman bridge that is not conserved today. In the past, it was one of the most important mining and metallurgical points of Spain since the 18th century, and it was also well known because of workers struggles and its cultural life. The 3rd railway to be built in the Iberian Peninsula was the FC of Langreo. The Factory of La Felguera was one of the most important iron works centers in Spain, and the Langreo mines was well known in whole the country. Because of the Spanish "Industrial Restructuring", Langreo lost its industrial importance, but today the town hosts Bayer, where 100% of the acetylsalicylic acid of the German enterprise are produced. Langreo also holds the technologies centre Valnalón. Langreo has historic monuments like the church of San Esteban, the Quintana Tower or the Sanctuary of Carbayu. Also preserves good examples of its industrial heritage and it hosts the Siderurgy Museum Of Asturias within the old Felguera Factory, the Samuño Valley and Railway Mining Museum, and the art gallery Pinacoteca Eduardo Úrculo. Langreo celebrates fiestas of San Pedro and Santiago, and special gastronomic days: Carnival (February) Cider (April) and Fabada (December). The largest town is Langreo formed by the most important districts: La Felguera (20,000 inhabitants), Sama (10,000), and Riaño, Ciaño, Lada and Barros, also known as parishes. Parishes There are eight parishes (administrative divisions) by population: La Felguera Sama Riaño Ciaño Lada Tuilla Barros La Venta Politics People David Villa, footballer Manuel Mejuto González, football referee Pedro Duro, businessman Aurelius of Asturias, King of Asturias Gaspar García Laviana, soldier Mario Cotelo, footballer Alberto Coto García, mental calculator Dámaso Alonso, poet Narciso Ibáñez Menta, actor Jesús Fernández Duro, sportman María Neira, WHO doctor Carlos Álvarez-Nóvoa, actor Gallery References External links Ayuntamiento de Langreo Municipalities in Asturias
EMX or EmX may refer to: emx+gcc, a DOS extender and DOS and OS/2 programming environment Emerald Express (EmX), a bus rapid transit system in Lane County, Oregon EuroManx, a defunct airline which held ICAO airline designator EMX El Maitén Airport, an airport in Argentina which has IATA airport code EMX Electribe EMX, music production station by Korg See also EMX1, a human gene EMX2, a human gene
Miles Poindexter (April 22, 1868September 21, 1946) was an American lawyer and politician. As a Republican and briefly a Progressive, he served one term as a United States representative from 1909 to 1911, and two terms as a United States senator from 1911 to 1923, representing the state of Washington. Poindexter also served as United States Ambassador to Peru during the presidential administrations of Warren Harding and Calvin Coolidge. Early life Poindexter was born in Memphis, Tennessee, the son of Josephine (Anderson) Poindexter and William B. Poindexter. His parents were residents of Malvern Hill in Henrico County, Virginia, and his father was an American Civil War veteran of the Confederate States Army. Poindexter was raised in Virginia, and attended the Fancy Hill Academy in Rockbridge County, Virginia. He then attended Washington and Lee University in Lexington, Virginia, from which he graduated with an LL.B. degree in 1891. Political career In 1908, Poindexter was elected to the U.S. House. He served one term (1909–1911), and was reelected in 1910. He resigned before his new term began in March 1911 because the state legislature elected him to the U.S. Senate. He was reelected in 1916, and served from 1911 to 1923. Poindexter became a Progressive Party member in 1912, but returned to the Republicans in 1915. Poindexter was an unsuccessful candidate for the Republican nomination for president in 1920, and for reelection to the Senate in 1922. In 1923, Poindexter was appointed Ambassador to Peru. He served until 1928, when he returned to Washington and waged an unsuccessful campaign for the Senate. Legal career After he graduated, Poindexter settled in Walla Walla, Washington, where he was admitted to the bar and began the practice of law. In 1892 he became the prosecuting attorney of Walla Walla County. He moved to Spokane, Washington in 1897 where he continued the practice of law. He served as the assistant prosecuting attorney for Spokane County from 1898 to 1904, and as a judge of the superior court from 1904 to 1908. Political career He was elected as a Republican to the Sixty-first Congress, and served from March 4, 1909 to March 3, 1911 representing Washington's newly created 3rd congressional district. He was reelected in 1910, but resigned in 1911 because the Washington State Legislature elected him to the U.S. Senate. He was reelected in 1916, and served from March 4, 1911 to March 3, 1923. Poindexter left the Republican Party in 1913 to join the Progressive Party, rejoining the Republicans in 1915. During World War I, Poindexter moved away from supporting progressive causes and led several efforts that questioned the patriotism of German-Americans and attempted to keep them from wartime leadership positions in the military. In a highly-publicized instance, Poindexter accused German-born Colonel Carl Reichmann (1859–1937), a distinguished Army officer who had served since 1881, of being pro-German and used the legislative process to block Reichmann's promotion to brigadier general. Reichmann had become a US citizen in 1887 and the promotion was supported by American Expeditionary Forces commander John J. Pershing, Hugh L. Scott, the Army Chief of Staff, and Newton D. Baker, the Secretary of War, but they were unable to overcome Poindexter's opposition and Reichmann remained a colonel. Poindexter also played a role in instigating the First Red Scare by accusing the Wilson administration of being infested with Bolshevism and accusing United States Supreme Court Associate Justice Louis Brandeis of being a communist. Poindexter was a target of reformers and progressives in 1922, and lost his bid for reelection to the Democratic nominee, Representative Clarence Dill. Committee chairmanships During his Senate tenure, Poindexter served as chairman of the following committees: United States Senate Committee on Expenditures in the Interior Department (Sixty-second Congress) United States Senate Committee on Mines and Mining (Sixty-second Congress, Sixty-sixth Congress and Sixty-seventh Congress) United States Senate Committee on Pacific Islands and Puerto Rico (Sixty-second Congress) United States Senate Committee on Expenditures in the War Department (Sixty-third Congress and Sixty-fourth Congress) United States Senate Committee on Indian Depredations (Sixty-fifth Congress) Later life Poindexter ran in the 1920 Republican Party presidential primaries, but was not a serious contender for the party's nomination. He received the votes of 20 delegates on the first ballot at the 1920 Republican National Convention, and the nomination went to Warren G. Harding on the 10th ballot. After he lost his 1922 campaign for reelection to the Senate, in 1923 Harding appointed Poindexter as United States Ambassador to Peru. He served until 1928, when he resigned and returned to Washington. He was an unsuccessful candidate that year for the United States Senate. Retirement and death After the death of his wife, Poindexter returned to his home, "Elk Cliff" in Greenlee, near Natural Bridge Station, Virginia. He died there on September 21, 1946, and was buried at Fairmount Memorial Park in Spokane. Family In 1892, Poindexter married Elizabeth Gale Page (1866–1929) of Walla Walla. They were the parents of a son, Gale Aylett Poindexter (1893–1976). Elizabeth Gale Page was the granddaughter of Joseph Gale, an executive of the Provisional Government of Oregon. She and Miles Poindexter were the aunt and uncle of actress Gale Page. Poindexter remarried in 1936, becoming the husband of Elinor Jackson Junkin Latane, the widow of John Holladay Latane, a professor at Johns Hopkins University. See also List of United States senators who switched parties References Sources Books Newspapers Internet External sources Archives Miles Poindexter Papers. 1897-1940. 189.79 cubic feet (442 boxes). Miles Poindexter photograph collection. circa 1910-1920. .12 cubic feet (4 folders). 162 photographic prints. Thomas Burke papers. 1875-1925. 24.78 cubic feet (58 boxes). Austin E. Griffiths papers. 1891-1952. 11.73 cubic feet (25 boxes). 1 microfilm reel. 1868 births 1946 deaths Candidates in the 1920 United States presidential election 20th-century American politicians Ambassadors of the United States to Peru Politicians from Memphis, Tennessee Politicians from Walla Walla, Washington Washington (state) Progressives (1912) Republican Party United States senators from Washington (state) Washington and Lee University School of Law alumni Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Washington (state) Old Right (United States) American anti-communists Progressive Party (1912) United States senators
Philip Dulebohn (born September 13, 1973 in Silver Spring, Maryland) is an American pair skater. He competed in pairs with partner Tiffany Scott, and the duo won the gold medal at the 2003 U.S. Figure Skating Championships. He and Scott ended their partnership in 2005, and now Dulebohn coaches at the University of Delaware ice arena in Newark, Delaware. His brother, Paul Dulebohn, was also a competitive skater. Results Men's singles Pairs with Tiffany Scott Programs (with Scott) References External links Navigation Olympic figure skaters for the United States 1973 births American male pair skaters Figure skaters at the 2002 Winter Olympics Living people Four Continents Figure Skating Championships medalists 20th-century American sportsmen 21st-century American sportsmen
The Niangua River is a tributary of the Osage River in the Ozarks region of southern and central Missouri in the United States. Via the Osage and Missouri rivers it is part of the watershed of the Mississippi River. Niangua River has the name of Niangua (or Nehemgar), an Indian tribal leader. The name is said to mean "bear". Course The Niangua River is formed in Webster County by the confluence of its short east and west forks, and flows generally northward through Dallas, Laclede and Camden counties, past Bennett Spring, Lake Niangua, and Ha Ha Tonka State Parks. It flows into the Osage River as an arm of the Lake of the Ozarks, which is formed by the Bagnell Dam on the Osage. As part of the lake it collects the Little Niangua River. River accesses This is a list of areas where the Niangua River can be publicly accessed; this list was put in order from beginning of river to where river meets up with Lake of the Ozarks. Bridal Cave Charity Access- State-owned river access; no camping allowed. Cline Ford Hico Slab- Where a road crosses the river; the bridge is basically a low-lying concrete slab with water tunnels. Del Marlin Ford Deusenberry Creek Gaunt Ford Crane Ford Route 32 Bridge Big John Access- State-owned river access. Wimberly Ford Dallion Ford Hackler Ford Williams Ford Access- A one lane road crossing; crossing is a concrete slab where water flows over the top. Hwy. K-P Bridge Access- Access includes privately owned campground, picnic area, and shuttle service. Moon Valley Access- State-owned river access. Hildebrand Ford Cat Hollow- Privately owned campground and cabins nearby. Route 64 Bridge Bennett Spring Access- State-owned river access. Barclay Springs- State-owned river access. Gilbertson Ford Prosperine Access- State-owned river access. Mountain Creek- Access includes privately owned campground, picnic area, cabins and shuttle service. McPheters Ford Smith Ford Leadmine Conservation Area- State-owned river access and conservation area; primitive camping allowed. Lake Niangua- Includes access and picnic area; no camping allowed. Whistle Bridge- Low-lying river crossing where road crosses river. Stone Ford Ha Ha Tonka State Park- State-owned river access; this is where the river merges into Lake of the Ozarks. banister ford north of Macks creek See also List of Missouri rivers References Columbia Gazetteer of North America entry DeLorme (2002). Missouri Atlas & Gazetteer. Yarmouth, Maine: DeLorme. . Rivers of Missouri Rivers of Camden County, Missouri Rivers of Dallas County, Missouri Rivers of Laclede County, Missouri Rivers of Webster County, Missouri Lake of the Ozarks Tributaries of the Missouri River
Dogme et Rituel de la Haute Magie () is the title of Éliphas Lévi's first published treatise on ritual magic, which appeared in two volumes between 1854 (Dogme) and 1856 (Rituel). Each volume is structured into 22 chapters, which parallel the tarot. Translations Lévi's Dogme et Rituel de la Haute Magie was translated into English by Arthur Edward Waite as Transcendental Magic, its Doctrine and Ritual (1896). Waite added a biographical preface and footnotes. A revised edition of this translation was published in 1923. A second translation, The Doctrine and Ritual of High Magic: A New Translation, by John Michael Greer and Mark Mikituk, was published in 2017 by TarcherPerigee. Response Modern The work has recently attracted the attention of scholars for its views on the study of magic, religion, natural science and alchemy. Lévi sees magic as occupying a place between science and religion and believes that it has the potential to act as a conciliatory or mediating function between the two views. Lévi rejects views, such as E. B. Taylor's, that magic or religion is inherently irrational and has been superseded by modern science. Instead he posits magic as an "esoteric science" and suggests that Hermeticism could be adapted to find the underlying truth behind all magical systems, calling for a "comparative magic." Levi thus posits a type of Perennialism buttressed by comparative theology and comparative religion, anticipating modern-day religious studies and paralleling contemporary comparative projects in anthropology and philology such as the work of Max Müller. Contemporary References Citations Works cited External links 1854 non-fiction books Occult books Treatises Literature first published in serial form
William Newton Byers (February 22, 1831, in Madison County, Ohio – March 25, 1903) was a founding figure of Omaha, Nebraska, serving as the first deputy surveyor of the Nebraska Territory, on the first Omaha City Council, and as a member of the first Nebraska Territorial Legislature. He was also an early settler of Denver, Colorado, and the founder and editor of the Rocky Mountain News in Denver. He was married to Elizabeth Byers who was a prominent woman in Denver for her philanthropic activities. They lived in the Byers–Evans House, now a museum that is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Early life Byers was born in Madison County, Ohio, to Moses and Mary. In 1851, he moved with his parents to Iowa, and then to Omaha, Nebraska, as the city was being laid out in 1854. Career In Omaha, he became the first deputy surveyor in the Nebraska Territory, in which capacity he created the first official plat of Omaha. A partnership with Andrew J. Poppleton led Byers to make the first map of the city of Omaha. Soon afterwards he became a member of the first city council, and a member of the first session of the Nebraska Territorial Legislature, convened January 16, 1855, in Omaha. In 1859 Byers moved to Denver to take advantage of recent gold strikes in the area. Taking the printing presses of the defunct Bellevue Gazette by oxcart, he and J. H. Kellom were the authors of a handbook to the gold fields, published that year. Robert W. Furnas, in 1859 associated with the Nebraska Advertiser, later recalled that Byers had bought the equipment of the defunct and had it taken by ox team to Denver, then in western Kansas Territory, where he used it in the publication of the Rocky Mountain News. The Rocky Mountain News was the first newspaper printed in Colorado; it continued publication until 2009. In 1863 Byers purchased Hot Sulphur Springs in northern Colorado from a Minnesota Sioux woman in a shady deal, causing the real owners, the Ute tribe, to unsuccessfully sue. Byers' plans to turn it into "America's Switzerland" were foiled by the failure of the railroad to arrive until 1928. Byers wrote numerous editorials justifying the 1864 Sand Creek Massacre, maintaining even years later that "Sand Creek saved Colorado, and taught the Indians the most salutary lesson they had ever learned." Personal life He was married to Elizabeth Byers who came to Denver during the Pikes Peak Gold Rush when it was a small settlement of tents. It was primarily inhabited by rough men who frequented the saloons. She had rough experiences during her 60 years in Denver. She lost both of her children with William. One of their houses was lost to fire, and another was flooded. She was active in establishment of charitable organizations in Denver. In 1860, she founded the Ladies United Aid Society. With Frances Wisebart Jacobs and Margaret Gray Evans, it was reorganized in 1872 to the Ladies Relief Society. One year later, Elizabeth Byers and Margaret Gray Evans founded the Old Ladies Home. To care for homeless girls, Byers established the Home of Good Shepherds in 1885. Upon moving to Denver he built and lived in several mansions, including the one now known as the Byers-Evans House. The Byers-Evans House is now a museum, and is located next to the Denver Art Museum in downtown Denver. In 1891 Byers and his wife relocated to a mansion they built on a large tract of land at 171 S. Washington St. Byers was an avid horticulturalist and planted a wide variety of tree species on his property; he used the majority of the land plot for personal farming and gardening. After the Byers couple vacated their mansion and farm, the house was demolished and the property was dedicated to the Denver Public Schools in 1921. Some of the trees he planted may still be on the property today, around the periphery of DSST Byers Middle and High Schools. The school was originally named William N. Byers Junior High School, then DSST: Byers, until 2023 when the name was changed in consideration of Byers' support for the Sand Creek Massacre. A branch of the Denver Public Library had been named for Byers, but it was renamed in 2021, also in consideration of the Sand Creek Massacre. Byers had a mistress, Hattie Sancomb, who tried to kill him. It created a scandal, and ended his political career, but Elizabeth stood by her husband. As a former territorial surveyor, it is not surprising that Byers was an accomplished outdoorsman. While living in Denver, he spent considerable time in the mountains. In 1863, the artist Albert Bierstadt asked him to serve as a guide, and he led Bierstadt on an expedition from Idaho Springs, Colorado, to the summit of the mountain Bierstadt named Mount Rosalie, later known as Mount Evans, and later as Mount Blue Sky. Bierstadt's masterpiece Storm in the rocky mountains was based on that trip. William N. Byers died on March 25, 1903, and was buried in Fairmount Cemetery in Denver, Colorado. Legacy A 1964 episode of the Western anthology series Death Valley Days purported to be the story of the establishment of the Rocky Mountain News, with Byers portrayed by actor Jerome Courtland. References External links Byers biography Longer biography of Byers Town of Hot Sulphur Springs website 1831 births 1903 deaths Politicians from Denver History of Denver Burials at Fairmount Cemetery (Denver, Colorado) American newspaper founders Members of the Nebraska Territorial Legislature 19th-century American politicians Omaha City Council members Rocky Mountain News people 19th-century American businesspeople
The Grotto () is a sinkhole geological formation and tourist attraction, found on the Great Ocean Road outside Port Campbell in Victoria, Australia. Wooden steps wind down the cliff face to the bottom, providing visibility of the sea beyond a pool at low tide. See also Gibson Steps, Victoria List of sinkholes of Australia Loch Ard Gorge London Arch (formerly London Bridge) The Twelve Apostles, Victoria External links Official Website for 12 Apostles Region of Victoria Tourist attractions in Victoria (state) Landforms of Victoria (state) Sinkholes of Australia Great Ocean Road
Piast the Wheelwright ( 740/741? – 861 AD; Latin: Past Ckosisconis, Pazt filius Chosisconisu; Polish: Piast Chościskowic, Piast Kołodziej , Piast Oracz or Piast) was a semi-legendary figure in medieval Poland (9th century AD), and the presumed founder of the Piast dynasty that would rule the future Kingdom of Poland. Legend Piast makes an appearance in the Polish Chronicle of Gallus Anonymus, along with his father, Chościsko, and Piast's wife, Rzepicha. The chronicle tells the story of an unexpected visit paid to Piast by two strangers. They ask to join Piast's family in celebration of the 7th birthday (a pagan rite of passage for young boys) of Piast's son, Siemowit. In return for the hospitality, the guests cast a spell making Piast's cellar ever full of plenty. Seeing this, Piast's compatriots declare him their new prince, to replace the late Prince Popiel. If Piast really existed, he would have been the great-great-grandfather of Prince Mieszko I (c. 930–92), the first historic ruler of Poland, and the great-great-great-grandfather of Bolesław I the Brave (967–1025), the first Polish king. The legendary Piasts were native of Gniezno, a well-fortified castle town founded between the eighth and ninth century, within the tribal territory of the Polans. According to legend, he died in 861 aged 120 years. Legacy In over 1,000 years of Polish history no one else bore the name Piast. Two theories explain the etymology of the word Piast. The first gives the root as piasta ("hub" in Polish), a reference to his profession. The second relates Piast to piastun ("custodian" or "keeper"). This could hint at Piast's initial position as a majordomo, or a "steward of the house", in the court of another ruler, and the subsequent takeover of power by Piast. This would parallel the development of the early medieval Frankish dynasties, when the Mayors of the Palace of the Merovingian kings gradually usurped political control. References 740s births 861 deaths Year of birth uncertain 9th-century Slavs People whose existence is disputed Piast dynasty Slavic pagans Longevity myths
Hong Soon-young (30 January 1937 – 30 April 2014) was a South Korean diplomat. He has served in several high-level posts, including as presidential aide for state affairs, Foreign Minister, and Minister of Unification, and has been ambassador to Russia (1992–1993), Germany (1994–1998), The People's Republic of China (2000–2001), Malaysia (1990–1992), and Pakistan (1984–1987). He is a graduate of Seoul National University and attended the Graduate School of International Relations at Columbia University. References External links Hong, Soon-young. "Thawing Korea's Cold War: The Path to Peace on the Korean Peninsula", Foreign Affairs, May/June 1999. Interview with Asiaweek.com, December 17, 1999. Text of a speech given to the Asia Society, September 23, 1998. South Korean diplomats 1937 births 2014 deaths Seoul National University School of Law alumni School of International and Public Affairs, Columbia University alumni Ambassadors of South Korea to Russia Ambassadors of South Korea to China Ambassadors of South Korea to Germany Ambassadors of South Korea to Malaysia Ambassadors of South Korea to Pakistan Foreign ministers of South Korea
Charles Schlueter, born in Du Quoin, Illinois, is the retired principal trumpeter of the Boston Symphony Orchestra. Schlueter studied with William Vacchiano at the Juilliard School. Prior to his 25 years as principal of the BSO, he also held positions with the Kansas City Symphony, Milwaukee Symphony Orchestra, Cleveland Orchestra, and the Minnesota Orchestra. Charles Schlueter is also a well-known teacher, currently on the faculty of the New England Conservatory of Music, and has taught many trumpet players including Andrew Balio, (principal of the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra), Matthew Sonneborn (principal of the Naples Philharmonic Orchestra), Roderick Macdonald (former principal trumpet of the Leipzig Gewandhaus Orchestra), Jeffrey Work and David Bamonte (principal and assistant principal of the Oregon Symphony Orchestra), Dana Oakes, principal of the Boston Philharmonic Orchestra and Boston Landmarks Orchestra, and Eric Berlin (principal of the Albany Symphony Orchestra). In addition to the many recordings made with the Minnesota Orchestra and the Boston Symphony Orchestra during his tenures there, Schlueter has released four solo albums with the Kleos Classics label. His four albums are entitled "Bravura Trumpet", "Trumpet Works", "Trumpet Concertos", and "Virtuoso Trumpet". In 2001, he founded The Charles Schlueter Foundation, a non-profit organization "to encourage communication among brass players and to advance the level of performance, teaching and literature associated with brass instruments". Schlueter was one of the main focal points of Carl Vigeland's 1989 book In Concert: Onstage and Offstage with the Boston Symphony Orchestra, which tells the story of the Symphony, its conductor Seiji Ozawa and the 1986-87 season. Schlueter retired from the Boston Symphony Orchestra at the conclusion of the Tanglewood 2006 Season. He was Boston Musicians Association musician of the year in 2006. Schlueter received the Honorary Award, the highest honor of the International Trumpet Guild, in 2007. References External links Current Biography courtesy New England Conservatory. Schlueter's personal website. Conversation with Charles Schlueter Announcement of recital and master class at Oberlin Conservatory of Music December 2005 Hear Charles Schlueter in concert from WGBH Radio in Boston, Massachusetts. Coverage of Schlueter's 2007 Trumpet Guild Conference masterclass American classical trumpeters American male trumpeters Year of birth missing (living people) Living people People from Du Quoin, Illinois Juilliard School alumni 21st-century trumpeters 21st-century American male musicians
The Lookout Mountain Incline Railway is a inclined plane funicular railway leading to the top of Lookout Mountain from the historic St. Elmo neighborhood of Chattanooga, Tennessee. Passengers are transported from St. Elmo's Station at the base, to Point Park at the mountain summit, which overlooks the city and the Tennessee River. It is just a short drive to three of Chattanooga's main tourist attractions, Ruby Falls, Cavern Castle, and Rock City. The railway is approximately in length (single-track except for a short two-track passing loop at the midway point, allowing operation of two cars at one time). It has a maximum grade of 72.7%, making it one of the world's steepest passenger railways. It obtained Historic Mechanical Engineering Landmark status in 1991. The cable system for the cars was made by the Otis Elevator Company. History The Lookout Mountain Incline Railway (Incline No. 2) was opened on November 16, 1895, by the Chattanooga Incline and Lula Lake Railway and functions as a major mode of transportation to the top of the mountain. It was the second of two inclines constructed on Lookout Mountain; the first was the Chattanooga and Lookout Mountain Railway (Incline No. 1), which operated from 1886 to 1895 and dismantled in 1900. Service was disrupted twice by fires that destroyed the powerhouse, upper station and cars stored there overnight (the first fire occurring on December 13, 1896, and the second on March 24, 1919). Both fires put the railway temporarily out of service, substitute service being provided by the Chattanooga Railway and Light Company's Lookout Mountain route. The railway was sold in the 1940s to Southern Coach Lines and is now operated by the Chattanooga Area Regional Transportation Authority, the area's public transit agency. The Incline Railway is a well-known and beloved Chattanooga landmark; the railway has been depicted in numerous regional and national publications, including being on TV, most prominently on Larry the Cable Guy's Only in America with Larry the Cable Guy in February 2011. The railway is one of the main tourist attractions in the Chattanooga area, totaling over 100,000 visits annually. The top station features an observation deck and a gift shop. See also List of funicular railways Otis Elevating Railway References External links Lookout Mountain Incline Railway official web site HawkinsRails' Lookout Mtn Incline Railway page Funicular railways in the United States Heritage railroads in Tennessee Lookout Mountain Historic Mechanical Engineering Landmarks Transportation in Hamilton County, Tennessee National Register of Historic Places in Tennessee Railway inclines in the United States Standard gauge railways in the United States Tourist attractions in Hamilton County, Tennessee 1895 establishments in Tennessee National Register of Historic Places in Chattanooga, Tennessee Cableways on the National Register of Historic Places Rail infrastructure on the National Register of Historic Places in Tennessee
The Little Niangua River is a tributary of the Niangua River in the Ozarks region of central Missouri in the United States. Via the Niangua, Osage and Missouri rivers, it is part of the watershed of the Mississippi River. The Little Niangua was so named for its smaller size relative to the Niangua River. Description The Little Niangua rises in Dallas County and flows generally northeasterly through Hickory and Camden counties. It joins the Niangua River in Camden County as an arm of the Lake of the Ozarks, which is formed by a dam on the Osage River. Niangua darter The upper reaches of the Little Niangua River, including the tributaries of Cahoochie Creek and Thomas Creek in Dallas County, are known habitats of the Niangua darter, a small fish that is on the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's list of Endangered Species. Public areas There are multiple river accesses on the Little Niangua River, including Bannister Hollow, Fiery Fork and most areas where a road crosses the river. See also List of Missouri rivers Little Niangua Suspension Bridge References Columbia Gazetteer of North America entry DeLorme (2002). Missouri Atlas & Gazetteer. Yarmouth, Maine: DeLorme. . U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service entry for the Niangua Darter Rivers of Missouri Rivers of Camden County, Missouri Rivers of Dallas County, Missouri Rivers of Hickory County, Missouri Tributaries of the Missouri River
Stephen John Davies (born 2 January 1969 in Parkes, NSW) is an Australian hockey player who represented his country at three successive Summer Olympic Games, winning a silver medal and two bronze medals. In total he played for the Australia national hockey team 274 times over 10 years and was inducted into the Hockey NSW Hall of Fame in November 2009. References External links 1969 births Living people Australian male field hockey players Olympic field hockey players for Australia Field hockey players at the 1992 Summer Olympics Field hockey players at the 1996 Summer Olympics 1998 Men's Hockey World Cup players Field hockey players at the 2000 Summer Olympics Sportsmen from New South Wales Olympic silver medalists for Australia Olympic bronze medalists for Australia Olympic medalists in field hockey Medalists at the 2000 Summer Olympics Medalists at the 1996 Summer Olympics Medalists at the 1992 Summer Olympics Commonwealth Games medallists in field hockey Commonwealth Games gold medallists for Australia Field hockey players at the 1998 Commonwealth Games 1990 Men's Hockey World Cup players 20th-century Australian people People from the Central West (New South Wales) Field hockey people from New South Wales Medallists at the 1998 Commonwealth Games
Patrik Antonius (born 13 December 1980) is a Finnish professional poker player, former tennis player and coach, and model from Vantaa, Finland. He currently resides in Monte Carlo. Antonius was mentored by poker pro Marcel Lüske as a member of Luske's "Circle of Outlaws" and later advised by Jennifer Harman. Antonius has two children. Poker career Antonius began making a name for himself on the poker tournament circuit with two finishes near the final table of a European Poker Tour (EPT) event and a World Poker Tour (WPT) event, 12th at the EPT PokerStars Caribbean Adventure, then 15th at the WPT Bay 101 Shooting Stars event two months later, in early 2005. He went on to finish in the money in three events of the 2005 World Series of Poker (WSOP). In September 2005 he made the European Poker Tour (EPT) Main Event final table, finishing 3rd in Barcelona. The next month, Antonius won the EPT event in Baden bei Wien, taking home the €288,180 first prize when in the final hand his beat Gunnar Østebrød's on a board of . In December 2005 he finished the year 2nd in the WPT Five Diamond World Poker Classic in Las Vegas, Nevada, winning $1,046,470. In July 2006 he placed 9th in the 143-player 8-handed World Series of Poker $50,000 H.O.R.S.E. event, taking home $205,920, his biggest cash that year. In the 2007 World Series of Poker, Antonius entered numerous tournaments but he only cashed in the World Championship of Pot Limit Omaha event, placing third and winning $311,394, making that his ninth WSOP cash and increasing his WSOP earnings to a total of $569,964. Antonius has been featured three times on NBC's Poker After Dark. In his first appearance, he finished as runner up, losing out to fellow poker professional Jennifer Harman, but his next attempt saw him defeat Brad Booth in heads-up play to take the victory. In his third appearance he was runner up again, this time to Johnny Chan. , Antonius' total live tournament winnings exceed $6,775,000. His 14 cashes at the WSOP account for $911,178 of those winnings. Antonius was not able to enter the 2009 WSOP Main Event, as he was turned away when attempting to register along with hundreds of others due to a capacity field. He also plays in some of the highest profile online tournaments, and in September 2008, he finished 2nd in the Full Tilt Poker $25,000 buy-in Heads-Up Pot Limit Omaha Championship, winning $320,000. Antonius finished 9th in the 593-player 8-handed €10,400 2011 World Series of Poker Europe main event for a prize of €90,000. In January 2013, Antonius finished third in the Aussie Millions Main event for $600,000. In September 2022, Antonius won the Triton Poker $25,000 No-Limit Hold'em event for $825,000. Prize Money (Tournaments) Cash games Antonius is a heads-up specialist. He is a regular high-stakes player online and one of the most successful, having won millions of dollars. He has played on Full Tilt Poker under several nicknames, including Luigi66369, CryMeRiver9 and Finddagrind, but having become a member of "Team Full Tilt" he now plays under his real name. During his early career he also used screen names e.g. I_knockout_U, try_hrdr_fish and -ANTONIUS- on various other poker networks. Previously Antonius was one of a team of players associated with Martinspoker.com. He is equally prolific in live cash games, and is a regular in the Big Game, the high-stakes cash game at the Bellagio. Antonius appeared on the third to sixth seasons of GSN's High Stakes Poker. Patrik was involved, along with Sammy Farha, in the show's largest ever pot; it totaled $998,800. After a preflop raise and re-raise the flop came ; Antonius held for top pair and Farha held , giving him two over-cards and a flush draw. Sammy called Patrik's all-in raise instantly and the two agreed to run the turn and river four times. Though Sammy's hand was a slight favorite, Patrik won three of the four runs and collected $749,100. In another sizable pot on High Stakes Poker, Patrik went up against Jamie Gold. Jamie had versus Patrik's . Patrik raised to $4,000 preflop with Jamie reraising to $14,000, after declaring that his hole cards felt "like aces". The flop came out , giving Patrik an inside straight draw. Jamie bet $15,000 into a $30,800 pot, which Patrik called. The turn was the , giving Patrik a straight and Jamie a set of kings. Patrik bet $45,000 into the pot, which Jamie raised all in. Patrik immediately called making the pot worth $743,800. The players agreed to run the river three times. Despite being a 77%-23% favorite, Patrik won only the last of the three times, as Jamie hit a full house on the first two. At the time, it was the largest pot ever on High Stakes Poker. Antonius has since lost a pot of almost $600,000 to Tom Dwan on an episode of the Poker After Dark high-stakes cash game. Tom straddled the hand to $1,200 and Patrik was first to act having pocket 10s, with which he raised. Tom reraised the hand with pocket kings and Patrik called. The flop gave Patrik a set of tens and he bet $27,000, which Tom called. The turn was a king, giving Tom a set of kings. Patrik bet $59,000 which led to Dwan going all-in for over $200,000. Patrik called, making the pot almost $600,000. They ran it twice, with Patrik losing both. The hand had the largest pot in the history of Poker After Dark. In November 2009, Antonius won the biggest pot in online poker history, $1,356,946 against Viktor Blom, who was at the time known only by his Full Tilt Poker moniker, Isildur1. In February 2023, Antonius played on PokerGO's No Gamble, No Future cash game show. In No Gamble, No Future's Cash of the Titans that was shot over three days, Antonius would win the biggest pot in U.S. poker stream history when he doubled up through Eric Persson in a pot totalling $1,978,000. With the stakes at $1,000 / $2,000 blinds and a $2,000 big blind ante, Persson raised to $7,000 in the cutoff with and Rob Yong called on the button with . Antonius three-bet the small blind to $30,000 with . Persson and Yong called as the flop landed . Antonius bet out $40,000 and Persson raised to $140,000. Yong folded, but Antonius made it $250,000 and Persson called. The turn landed the and Antonius bet $150,000. Persson moved all-in and Antonius called all-in for just over $520,000. The river landed the and Antonius won the biggest pot in U.S. poker stream history. References 1980 births Living people Sportspeople from Helsinki Finnish male models Finnish poker players Finnish tennis coaches Finnish expatriates in Monaco European Poker Tour winners Poker After Dark tournament winners People from Vantaa
Tamaki may refer to: New Zealand Tāmaki, a suburb of Auckland to the west of the Tamaki River Tāmaki (New Zealand electorate), in Auckland East Tāmaki, a suburb of Auckland to the east of the Tamaki River Tamaki River, in Auckland Tamaki Strait, between Waiheke Island and the North Island Tāmaki isthmus, the location of the Auckland CBD and central suburbs Auckland (Māori name) Other countries Tamaki, Afghanistan Tamaki, Mie, Japan Other uses Tamaki (name), people
A smart host or smarthost is an email server via which third parties can send emails and have them forwarded on to the email recipients' email servers. Smarthosts were originally open mail relays, but most providers now require authentication from the sender, to verify that the sender is authorised – for example, an ISP might run a smarthost for their paying customers only. Use in spam control efforts In an effort to reduce email spam originating from their customer's IP addresses, some internet service providers (ISPs), will not allow their customers to communicate directly with recipient mailservers via the default SMTP port number 25. Instead, often they will set up a smarthost to which their customers can direct all their outward mail – or customers could alternatively use one of the commercial smarthost services. Sometimes, even if an outward port 25 is not blocked, an individual or organisation's normal external IP address has a difficulty in getting SMTP mail accepted. This could be because that IP was assigned in the past to someone who sent spam from it, or appears to be a dynamic address such as typically used for home connection. Whatever the reason for the "poor reputation" or "blacklisting", they can choose to redirect all their email out to an external smarthost for delivery. Reducing complexity When a host runs its own local mail server, a smart host is often used to transmit all mail to other systems through a central mail server. This is used to ease the management of a single mail server with aliases, security, and Internet access rather than maintaining numerous local mail servers. See also Mail submission agent References Email Internet terminology
Warren Central High School (often referred to as Central or WCHS) is a 4-year high school in Bowling Green (Warren County) in the U.S. state of Kentucky. It is one of four high schools serving the Warren County Public Schools. History Warren Central High School was established in 1968 with the merger of Warren County High School and Alvaton High School. The consolidated school was located at the site of Warren County High School. With the school's population rising to over 2,000 students by 1990, a new high school, Greenwood High School, was created in the district to alleviate the strain. In 1995, a nickel tax was passed that raised funds for renovations for the school. The original building was built during the 1940s and additional spaces were added in the 1970s and all were showing signs of age. Over the next three years, the original building was replaced and upgrades were made to the newer portions of the school. The new building opened in 1998. Since that time, the population of Warren Central has again grown to nearly 1,200 and a new high school/middle school was built in the Rich Pond area of Warren County that once again divided Warren Central and Greenwood high schools. Teachers Teachers at Warren Central include Katelyn Blaha, Donna Forsythe, Lauren Tanner, Nann Harwood, Keshia Cagle, and Nathan Dick. Former teachers include Virgil Livers who played football for the Chicago Bears, Douglas Jenkins who was the first recipient of the President's Award For Excellence in Math and Science Teaching, Dr. Tracy Inman who is an author and associate director of The Center for Gifted Studies at WKU, and Ruth Lanphear, author. Athletics Warren Central High School participates in the following Kentucky High School Athletic Association (KHSAA) sanctioned varsity athletics: basketball, baseball, cross country, football, golf, soccer, softball, tennis, track and field, and volleyball. Many of the varsity sports are a part of a rivalry with the cross-town Bowling Green High School. The varsity football team competes in KHSAA Class 4A, Region 1, District 2. The team was state runner-up in 1989 and 1990 and has won their region seven times, most recently in 2005. Boys basketball The boys' varsity basketball team competes in the 14th District within the 4th Region. The team won the 4th Region six straight years from 2002 through 2007, a feat accomplished only once in the 4th Region history. The team won the KHSAA Sweet 16 state basketball championship in 2004 and finished runner-up in 2005 despite the loss of four senior starters from the state champion team. They advanced to the final four of the Sweet 16 for the third time in four years in 2007, falling to Louisville Ballard in the state semifinals. In 2010 Warren Central returned to the Sweet 16 for the first time since their six-year run ended in 2007, where they advanced to the quarterfinals. They also advanced in 2011. They have won eleven total 14th District championships and eleven total 4th Region championships. They have additionally been 14th District runners-up eight times and 4th Region runners-up three times. Jeremy Anderson, a 2007 alumni, played in the Sweet 16 five-consecutive years, only the 2nd player in Kentucky to accomplish this. Warren Central was the 2022 state runner up, and then won a second state title in 2023. Girls basketball The varsity girls' basketball team competes in the same district and region as the boys' teams. The 1983 girls' team won the KHSAA state basketball championship, a culmination of many years of outstanding girls' teams. Several WCHS alumni played college basketball at Western Kentucky University (Clemette Haskins, Melinda Carlson), and helped Western achieve national status, playing in Women's NCAA Final 4 tournaments in the 1980s. Clubs and organizations Warren Central has a variety of both academic and non-academic clubs and organizations. Some of these organizations include local chapters of national organizations such as National Beta Club, Fellowship of Christian Athletes (FCA), Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA), and Family, Career, and Community Leaders of America. Other organizations include the Academic Team, Kentucky Youth Assembly, Afro-American History Club, Art Club, Astronomy Club, Bosnian American Club, Drama Club, French Club, Math/Computer Club, Physics Un-club, Spanish Club, Spanish Chorus, Pride Club, and Student Council Warren Central also has a comprehensive fine arts department with a full range of music offerings that has produced generations of musicians and teachers. Several alumni are leaders in the field. Notable alumni George Fant (2011), former WKU basketball and football player, currently plays for the New York Jets of the NFL Anthony Grundy (1995), North Carolina State basketball player and pro basketball player for the Atlanta Hawks Chris Turner (1987), former Western Kentucky University and Major League Baseball baseball player References External links Official WCHS Website Buildings and structures in Bowling Green, Kentucky Public high schools in Kentucky Schools in Warren County, Kentucky
Jay Jason Stacy (born 9 August 1968 in Melbourne, Victoria) is a former field hockey midfielder from Australia, who participated in four Summer Olympics for his native country, starting in 1988. References Hockey Australia External links 1968 births Australian male field hockey players Male field hockey midfielders Australian field hockey coaches Olympic field hockey players for Australia Field hockey players at the 1988 Summer Olympics Field hockey players at the 1992 Summer Olympics Field hockey players at the 1996 Summer Olympics 1998 Men's Hockey World Cup players Field hockey players at the 2000 Summer Olympics Field hockey players from Melbourne Living people Olympic silver medalists for Australia Olympic bronze medalists for Australia Olympic medalists in field hockey Medalists at the 2000 Summer Olympics Medalists at the 1996 Summer Olympics Medalists at the 1992 Summer Olympics Commonwealth Games medallists in field hockey Commonwealth Games gold medallists for Australia Oranje Zwart players Expatriate field hockey players Australian expatriate sportspeople in the Netherlands Field hockey players at the 1998 Commonwealth Games 1990 Men's Hockey World Cup players 20th-century Australian people Medallists at the 1998 Commonwealth Games Sportsmen from Victoria (state)
Binchō-tan (), also called white charcoal or binchō-zumi, is a type of charcoal traditionally used in Japanese cooking. Its use dates to the Edo period, when, during the Genroku era, a craftsman named Bichū-ya Chōzaemon () began to produce it in Tanabe, Wakayama. The typical raw material used to make binchō-tan in Japan is oak, specifically , now the official tree of Wakayama Prefecture. Wakayama continues to be a major producer of high-quality charcoal, with the town of Minabe, Wakayama, producing more binchō-tan than any other town in Japan. Binchō-tan produced in Wakayama is referred to as Kishū binchō-tan (), Kishū being the old name of Wakayama. White charcoal is made by pyrolysing wood in a kiln at approximately for 120 hours, then raising the temperature to around . Once carbonised, the material is taken out and covered in a damp mixture of earth, sand and ash. Binchō-tan is a type of hardwood charcoal which takes the natural shape of the wood that was used to make it. It is also harder than black charcoal, ringing with a metallic sound when struck. Due to its physical structure, binchō-tan takes on a whiter or even metallic appearance and, apart from being used for cooking, has other benefits such as absorption of odors. In comparison, oga-tan is a type of biomass briquettes - a sawdust charcoal compressed into shapes with angular edges, often with a hole in the center. There exists a common misconception amongst restaurants and chefs that causes them to refer to oga-tan as binchō-tan. Wind chimes and a musical instrument, the tankin ("charcoal-xylophone"), have been made from Binchō-tan. References External links 紀州備長炭 —Making of Kishū Binchōtan by Wakayama Pref. 炭琴 —Tankin ("charcoal-xylophone") "Charcoal Adds to the Good Life" – an article from 2001 touting the benefits of black and white charcoal, the latter including binchōtan Allotropes of carbon Fuels Japanese cuisine Japanese culture Charcoal
Army Day is celebrated on 15 January every year in India, in recognition of Lieutenant General Kodandera M. Cariappa's (later who became Field Marshal ) taking over as the first Commander-in-Chief of the Indian Army from General Francis Roy Bucher , the last British Commander-in-Chief of India, on 15 January 1949. The day is celebrated in the form of parades and other military shows in the national capital New Delhi as well as in all headquarters. On 15 January 2023, India celebrated its 75th Indian Army Day in Bengaluru. Army Day marks a day to salute the valiant soldiers who sacrificed their lives to protect the country and its citizens. While celebrations take place across the country, the main Army Day parade is conducted in Cariappa Parade ground in Delhi cantonment. Gallantry awards and Sena medals are also awarded on this day. In 2020, 15 soldiers were presented with bravery awards. Param Vir Chakra and Ashok Chakra awardees participate in the Army Day parade every year. Military hardware, numerous contingents and a combat display are part of the parade. In 2020, Captain Tania Shergill became the first female officer to command an Army Day parade. See also Armed Forces Day in other countries References Bibliography Indian Army January observances Annual events in India Armed Forces days
H7N1 is a subtype of the species Influenza A virus (sometimes called bird flu virus). H7N1 was first isolated in 1972, from Eurasian siskin. A highly pathogenic strain of it caused a flu outbreak with significant spread to numerous farms, resulting in great economic losses in 1999 in Italy in turkeys. References H7N1
H7N4 is a subtype of the species Influenza A virus (sometimes called bird flu virus). A highly pathogenic strain of it caused a minor flu outbreak in 1997 in New South Wales, Australia in chicken. On February 14, 2018, the Hong Kong Centre for Health Protection was notified by the National Health and Family Planning Commission of the People's Republic of China, that a 68-year-old female patient living in Changzhou of Jiangsu Province developed symptoms on Christmas day of 2017. According to the NHFPC, she was admitted to a hospital for medical treatment on the New Year's Day of 2018, and was discharged on January 22. She had had contact with live poultry before the onset of symptoms. No one who she had close contact with had any symptoms during the medical surveillance period. References H7N4
The Communauté métropolitaine de Québec (CMQ), or Quebec Metropolitan Community, is an administrative division of the province of Quebec, comprising the metropolitan area of Quebec City and Lévis. The CMQ is one of the two metropolitan communities of Quebec. Predecessor Effective January 1, 1970, the Québec Urban Community () ("CUQ") was established, which governed the area surrounding Quebec City on the north shore of the St. Lawrence River. Together with the CUQ, the Québec Urban Community Transit Commission () ("CTCUQ") and the Greater Québec Water Purification Board () ("BAEQM") were also established. Each of the three covered different groups of municipalities: Formation The CUQ was replaced by the CMQ on January 1, 2002. The CMQ exercised jurisdiction over a wider geographical area. Quebec was amalgamated with the cities of Beauport, Cap-Rouge, Charlesbourg, L'Ancienne-Lorette, Lac-Saint-Charles, Loretteville, Saint-Émile, Sainte-Foy, Sillery, Val-Bélair, Vanier and Saint-Augustin-de-Desmaures. In the 2006 demerger, L'Ancienne-Lorette and Saint-Augustin-de-Desmaures regained separate status. Lévis was amalgamated with Charny, Saint-Jean-Chrysostome, Saint-Nicolas, Saint-Rédempteur, Saint-Romuald, Pintendre, Saint-Étienne-de-Lauzon, Sainte-Hélène-de-Breakeyville and Saint-Joseph-de-la-Pointe-de-Lévy. Gallery References External links Communauté métropolitaine de Québec website Quebec City Guide - Télégraphe de Québec Quebec City Area Metropolitan areas of Quebec
Alan (; ) is a village in the Şemdinli District of Hakkâri Province in southeastern Turkey. The population of the village was 407 in 2022. It is populated by the Kurdish Zerzan tribe who have close links to their counterparts in Iran. The hamlet of Cevizpınar () is attached to the village. History Hālānā (today called Alan) was inhabited by 100 Assyrian families in 1877 when visited by Edward Lewes Cutts, all of whom were adherents of the Church of the East and were served by two functioning churches as part of the archdiocese of Shemsdin. It was destroyed by the Ottoman Army in 1915 amidst the Sayfo. Geography The Fritillaria imperialis plant grows in the village. Population Population history from 2007 to 2022: References Bibliography Villages in Şemdinli District Historic Assyrian communities in Turkey Places of the Assyrian genocide Kurdish settlements in Hakkâri Province
Cee-Lo Green and His Perfect Imperfections is the debut studio album by American singer-songwriter Cee Lo Green, released on April 23, 2002. The album features guest appearances from Jahalla, Kirkland Underground, John Popper (of Blues Traveler), Joey Huffman and fellow Dungeon Family rappers Big Gipp and Backbone. Track listing References 2002 debut albums CeeLo Green albums Arista Records albums Hip hop soul albums
Wijnand Ott (born 12 October 1955) is a Dutch musician. In 1980, Ott joined Diesel as a replacement for Frank Papendrecht. He had taken up a career as a bassist only recently before that (switching from guitar) and despite his shy demeanour, he was a quality bassist. In 1984 he left the band just before its demise around a year later. Today Ott works in television. External links 1955 births Living people Dutch rock bass guitarists Diesel (band) members Place of birth missing (living people)
Nathan Eglington OAM (born 2 December 1980 in Murwillumbah, New South Wales) is a field hockey midfielder and striker from Australia, who was a member of the team that won the golden medal at the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens. He is nicknamed Eggy, and played domestic hockey for the Queensland Blades in his native country Australia, with whom he won the national title in 2003, 2004, 2006 and 2007. Eglington made his international debut in 2002, in a test series game against South Korea in Adelaide, scoring twice. Eglington played 140 times for Australia scoring 50 goals before major injury prior to the 2008 Beijing Olympics, forced retirement from international competition at the age of 27 years. He is married to fellow former Australian representative, Lisa Eglington. The pair live in Tweed Heads with their two children. References External links Profile on Hockey Australia 1980 births Australian male field hockey players Male field hockey forwards Male field hockey midfielders Commonwealth Games gold medallists for Australia Field hockey players at the 2004 Summer Olympics Field hockey players at the 2006 Commonwealth Games 2006 Men's Hockey World Cup players Living people Olympic field hockey players for Australia Olympic gold medalists for Australia Olympic medalists in field hockey People from the Northern Rivers Recipients of the Medal of the Order of Australia Medalists at the 2004 Summer Olympics Commonwealth Games medallists in field hockey Sportsmen from New South Wales Medallists at the 2006 Commonwealth Games
In Hawaiian mythology, the Nawao are a legendary people, a wild, large-sized hunting people, descended from Lua-nu'u (Beckwith 1970:321-323). Other sources suggest that the Nawao were present in Hawaii before the Menehune who are thought to have driven them out or destroyed them. However, folklorist Katherine Luomala believes that the legends of the Menehune and similar creatures are a post-European contact mythology. References Hawaiian mythology Giants
"Smile Like You Mean It" is a song by American rock band the Killers, written by lead vocalist Brandon Flowers and bassist Mark Stoermer. Originally released as a B-side of "Mr. Brightside" in September 2003, it is featured on their debut studio album Hot Fuss (2004). It was the third single from the album released in the United States and the fourth in the United Kingdom, reaching number 15 on the Billboard U.S. Modern Rock Tracks chart and number 11 on the UK Singles Chart. It also received substantial radio airplay in Australia, where it was ranked number 39 on Triple J's Hottest 100 of 2004. Critical reception Billboard said the song "seems to deal with coming to terms with growing up and getting older." Chuck Arnold with People magazine called the song "a sardonic moper worthy of the Smiths." Billboard said the single is "more restrained and downtempo compared with the band's previous hits" but otherwise "pretty upbeat and is awash with soaring new wave synthesizers and 'killer' guitars." In the UK, the song was voted at 91 on Absolute Radio's 100 Best Songs of the Decade. Paste and American Songwriter both ranked the song number seven on their lists of the greatest Killers songs. Covers and other information The Killers claim that the song was written in just eight minutes. According to Brandon Flowers, the lyric "Looking back at sunsets on the East side" refers to the East side of Las Vegas, Nevada. David Gray performed an acoustic version of "Smile Like You Mean It" on BBC's Radio 1 in the Live Lounge. Tally Hall covered the song for the sixth The O.C. soundtrack: Music from the OC: Mix 6. The song was released as a downloadable track for the music video game series Rock Band on November 25, 2008. "Smile Like You Mean It" was remixed by French music producer Madeon. Music video The music video for the song shows ghostly figures of the band wandering around a house that the characters of the song presumably used to live in. While Flowers sings to the camera, flashbacks of the old house are shown behind him, including a children's party, a Christmas morning, a high school party, and a funeral. While these extras are oblivious to being watched, at the end they turn to the camera to look at the viewer while the band fades away. Track listing UK 7-inch red vinyl single A. "Smile Like You Mean It" B. "Ruby, Don't Take Your Love to Town" UK CD single "Smile Like You Mean It" "Get Trashed" UK 12-inch single "Smile Like You Mean It" "Mr Brightside" UK digital single "Smile Like You Mean It" – 6:26 "Smile Like You Mean It" – 7:34 "Get Trashed" – 3:39 Australian CD single "Smile Like You Mean It" "Change Your Mind" "Mr Brightside" Charts Certifications Release history References External links MusicOMH Song Review 2000s Island Records singles The Killers songs 2005 singles Songs written by Brandon Flowers Songs written by Mark Stoermer
Tuggeranong Homestead is located in the Australian Capital Territory in the area now covered by the suburb of Richardson. It is a property of historical significance and is listed on the ACT Heritage Register. It was owned by a succession of prominent pastoralists over the last century before it was resumed by the Government. Today it is used as a venue for special events, conferences and weddings. Early owners The first authorised landowner of the Tuggeranong area following white settlement was Peter Murdoch, aide-de-camp of Thomas Brisbane, who was awarded a grant of 2,000 acres (8 km2) in 1827. Following Murdoch's appointment to a position in Tasmania in 1829, the area became part of a grant to John McLaren who arrived from Glasgow in 1828. The property, then known as Janevale, was managed as a cattle station by McLaren's partner, William Wright (Moore, 1982). Tuggeranong was the original name of the whole of the Wanniassa and Lanyon areas. McLaren sold the property to Thomas Macquoid in 1835. Macquoid was the Sheriff of the Supreme Court who had arrived in the colony in 1829 (Lamb 2006) and died by his own hand on 12 October 1841. The Macquoid family Thomas Macquoid who was the Sheriff of the Supreme Court of NSW bought the property in 1835 and named it "Waniassa" after an estate in Java where he had grown coffee crops for the East India Company. He built a stone cottage and barn using convict labour. The barn still exists although it has been adapted for other uses. Part of Macquoid's cottage was incorporated into the drawing room of the homestead when it was remodelled 1908. In 1841 Macquoid ended his own life due to depression and financial hardship. His son Hya Macquoid took over management of the property and was able to pay his father's debts after some years. He was drowned on the ship Dunbar when it sank at South Head in Sydney in 1857. His body was never recovered. The Cunningham family The land was advertised for sale in 1858 and bought by Andrew Cunningham who owned Lanyon. In 1874 James (Jim) Cunningham who was Andrew's youngest son moved to the property which he called "Tuggranong" and lived in a small stone cottage. In 1889, aged 39, Jim married 19-year-old Mary Twynam, the daughter of Edward Twynam, the NSW Surveyor General. A photo of Mary at about this time is shown. Over the next twelve years the couple had eight children. Mary played her role as a successful pastoralist's wife attending balls, participating in fundraising activities for the parish church and local hospital. The homestead itself became the social hub of the district and Mary and Jim hosted many gatherings there. Tuggeranong became a prosperous sheep property. Up to 50,000 were shorn there each year. Typically the shearing season started at the beginning of November when about twenty-five men were employed to undertake this task. They were sometimes local but often small landholders supplementing their income came from Tumut, Gundagai or other outlying places. After the shearing finished, usually in early December, there would be a Shearers Ball held in the woolshed to which all the community was invited. The Goulburn Evening Penny Post described the event held in 1898 in the following terms: The annual Shearers Ball was held at the Tuggranong wool-shed on Thursday night and was a great success. From an early hour visitors from Queanbeyan, Tharwa and other places began to arrive and by nine o' clock there was a very large gathering present. On entering the wool-shed it could be seen at a glance that neither time nor trouble had been spared in decorating the place. The floor was in excellent order and every other arrangement complete... The supper was laid out in an adjoining building. The Cunningham family left Tuggeranong Homestead in 1914 and went to Lanyon which Jim had purchased after his brother's death. The Government resumed the land to become part of the Federal Capital Territory. In 1919 Charles Bean was allowed to use the Homestead to undertake his mammoth task of writing the history of Australia's part in World War 1. Charles Bean and his team Charles Edwin Woodrow Bean was commissioned by the Government to write twelve volumes on the history of Australia's part in the War in 1919. He and his team commenced this project at Victoria Barracks in Melbourne but it was soon found that the many interruptions caused by the soldiers returning from the War who were interested in their work made progress very difficult. It was then decided that a peaceful location could be provided at Tuggeranong Homestead which was by this stage owned by the Government. The team transferred there in October 1919 and remained there until April 1925. The Homestead provided living quarters as well as offices for most of the staff but two of the married men lived with their families in small cottages located about 400 metres away. At the back of the house was a large paddock where the team's horses were kept as well as a few sheep and a cow for milk. Water was pumped from Tuggeranong Creek which ran past one corner of the Homestead. In later years Charles remembered the peace and tranquillity of the property. He said: In the country air our nerves were easily refreshed by an hours ride. The garden of Tuggeranong under its beautiful trees became one of the sights of the Capital. In summer we arranged our own daylight saving and had tennis every evening In 1920 Charles met his future wife Ethel Young a nursing sister at Queanbeyan Hospital when she came to one of the tennis matches. He married her the following year and she also lived at the Homestead. Besides tennis the team had a passion for cricket and they built a sturdy cricket pitch which still remains today. After they left in 1925 the Homestead stood empty for two years and then in 1927 the property was leased by Timothy McCormack. The McCormack family Timothy Joseph McCormack owned Tuggeranong Homestead from 1927 until his death in 1938. He also controlled properties in Crookwell and at Royalla. He was born in 1873 in Wheeo near Crookwell. His father also called Timothy worked on a farming property owned by his grandmother Catherine McCormack who had moved to the Crookwell district as a widow in 1863. His father died in 1882 when Timothy was nine years old. His mother remarried but he continued his association with his father's family at Wheeo. In 1899 he married Mary Kennedy in Crookwell and the wedding was reported in many of the newspapers. Mary was the daughter of William Kennedy of Kialla who was a counsellor of the Crookwell Shire Council. The couple had five children three sons and two daughters. In 1927 Timothy leased Tuggeranong and developed a fine grazing property which produced world class merino wool. He also planted cereal crops and improved pastures. The Homestead became a centre for sporting and social events. He also built a racetrack on the property and owned several champion racehorses. A photo of the first race meeting at this track is shown here. Timothy died in 1938 and Tuggeranong continued to be operated by the McCormack family until 1974 when it was compulsorily resumed by the Government for suburban development. Although Canberra suburbs have been developed on much of the original property the homestead has been preserved on of surrounding land. The heritage-listed property currently hosts the Tuggeranong Homestead markets, on the first Sunday of every month, and is also a home for the Calwell Scout Group. External links Tuggeranong Homestead Environment ACT: Tuggeranong Homestead Related books Barrow, G (1998). Canberra's Historic Houses. Dagraja Press, ACT. . Gillespie, L (1991). Canberra 1820 - 1913. AGPS, ACT. . Moore, B (1982). The Lanyon Saga. Moore, ACT. . Lamb, R. (2006). Macquoid of Waniassa: Portrait of a Colonial Sheriff, Waniassa Publications, ACT, . References History of the Australian Capital Territory Homesteads in Canberra Australian Capital Territory Heritage Register
The Minidish is the tradename used for the small-sized satellite dish used by Freesat and Sky. The term has entered the vocabulary in the UK and Ireland as a generic term for a satellite dish, particularly small ones. The Minidish is an oval, mesh satellite dish capable of reflecting signals broadcast in the upper X band and . Two sizes exist: "Zone 1" dishes are issued in southern and Northern England and parts of Scotland and were 43 cm vertically prior to 2009; newer mark 4 dishes are approximately 50 cm "Zone 2" dishes are issued in elsewhere (Wales, Northern Ireland, Republic of Ireland, Scotland and northern England), which are 57 cm vertically. The Minidish uses a non-standard connector for the LNB, consisting of a peg about in width and in height prior to the mark 4 dishes introduced in 2009, as opposed to the 40 mm collar. This enforces the use of Sky-approved equipment, but also ensures that a suitable LNB is used. Due to the shape of the dish, an LNB with an oval feedhorn is required to get full signal. References Satellite television Radio electronics Sky Group Brands that became generic
The Pop Shop was a store owned by pop artist Keith Haring. Haring opened the first Pop Shop in New York City in 1986 (which closed in 2005) and later one in Tokyo (which closed in 1988). Haring viewed the Pop Shop as an extension of his work. It served to fulfill the artist's desire to make his iconic and beloved imagery accessible to the widest possible range of people both during his lifetime and posthumously through the Keith Haring Foundation. Every area of the store was devoted to Haring's work including floor-to-ceiling murals. The logo for the Pop Shop was a star with "Pop Shop" in the center. History First known for his chalk drawings in the New York City subway, Keith Haring gained international recognition after a solo exhibition at Tony Shafrazi Gallery in 1982. He continued to draw in the subways, but by 1984, people were stealing the pieces he made from the subways as his artwork became more expensive and more popular within the art market. The increase in value of his art meant only a select few could afford to buy it, and soon people were selling imitations of his drawings. On April 19 1986, Haring opened the first Pop Shop at 292 Lafayette Street in Manhattan's SoHo neighborhood. Haring stated that he opened a shop for two reasons. It was something he had wanted to do since he was 10 years old, and ''there were so many copies of my stuff around that I felt I had to do something myself so people would at least know what the real ones look like.'' The store was designed by the architectural firm of Moore & Pennoyer, but Haring painted the wall, floor and ceiling. The retail space was small, so the store was designed to use the space effectively. There was only one of each item on display, and a salesclerk checked off the things customers wanted to buy, then the merchandise was picked up at a counter. Haring compared the Pop Shop to a Brookstone shop, he added it was his "version of fast food or fast art.'' In addition to Haring's memorabilia, he also sold a few items by other artists. Haring's friend and mentor Andy Warhol was "a big supporter" of the Pop Shop. Haring felt the Pop Shop was "keeping ideologically with what Andy was doing and what conceptual artists and earth artists were doing: It was all about participation on a big level." In January 1988, Haring collaborated with Japanese film producer Kaz Kuzui, and his American wife, film director Fran Rubel Kuzui to open a Pop Shop in Tokyo, in the Aoyama neighborhood. Photographer Tseng Kwong Chi recorded many events related to the creation of the Tokyo Pop Shop. The store was short-lived and closed in the summer of 1988 due to disappointing sales. Haring noted that there were "too many Haring fakes available all over Tokyo and, this time, they're really well done." When the shop closed, the painted containers that shaped the store were given to art publisher George Mulder of Berlin as a gift from Haring. The containers were restored and exhibited in Saint Tropez, France in 2005. The New York Pop Shop closed on August 28, 2005. The store closed because the rent was increasing and the shop wasn't earning enough to cover expenses. Matthew Barolo, operations manager at the Keith Haring Foundation, felt the resources would be better spent for other projects. Pop Shop merchandise is still available through international licensing and exhibition related projects. The Keith Haring Foundation offers Haring memorabilia through an on-line Pop Shop. The original Pop Shop ceiling was later donated to the New York Historical Society and is installed in its entry. In 2006, the exhibition Keith Haring: Art and Commerce at the Tampa Museum of Art. In 2009, the shop has been reconstructed as part of London's Tate Modern's exhibition Pop Life: Art in a Material World. References Retail companies of the United States 1986 establishments in New York City 2005 disestablishments in New York (state) Keith Haring
Cox Field is an airport seven miles east of Paris, in Lamar County, Texas. It is owned by the city of Paris but is operated and maintained by J.R. Aviation, the airport's fixed-base operator (FBO). History The airport opened in August 1943 as Cox Army Airfield and was used by Second Air Force, United States Army Air Forces, primarily for liaison pilot training. The 157th Liaison Squadron was based here from March to May 1944. From 15 May to 8 October 1944 advanced liaison pilot training was conducted by the 163d liaison squadron, who prepared pilots as combat replacements for AAF liaison squadrons operating overseas. From October 1944 onward, the airfield was used by the Air Technical Service Command as an aircraft maintenance and supply depot. At the end of the war the airfield was not needed by the military and was turned over to the local government for civil use. Historical airline service Mid-Continent Airlines began landing at Paris in 1947 as a stop on a route between Houston and Tulsa using Douglas DC-3 aircraft. In 1952 Mid-Continent merged into Braniff International Airways which lengthened the route northbound from Tulsa all the way to Minneapolis with multiple stops including Kansas City and Omaha. Braniff soon discontinued service by 1953. Central Airlines began service in 1950 with Beechcraft Bonanzas, followed by Douglas DC-3s on flights to Dallas, Kansas City, and St. Louis, all making stops en route. Central merged into the original Frontier Airlines in 1967 which continued service using Convair 580 aircraft until January, 1977. SMB Stage Lines served Paris from 1968 until early 1975 with flights to Dallas and Tulsa using Beechcraft 99 airliners. There was no service at Paris from 1977 until 1979 when Metro Airlines began flights to Dallas/Fort Worth using de Havilland Canada DHC-6 Twin Otter aircraft. Metro's service ended in 1984 and Eagle Commuter succeeded providing flights to DFW for a period in 1985. Exec Express began service in 1987 with flights to DFW using Piper Navajo and Beechcraft 99 airliners. Exec Express changed its name to Lone Star Airlines in 1991 and service continued using Fairchild Swearingen Metroliners until 1997. Paris, TX has not seen scheduled air service since then. Facilities Cox Field covers at an elevation of 547 feet (167 m). It has three runways: 3/21 and 14/32 are each 4,624 by 150 feet (1,409 x 46 m) concrete and 17/35 is 6,002 by 150 feet (1,829 x 46 m) asphalt. It has one concrete helipad 40 by 40 feet (12 x 12 m). In the year ending April 30, 2007 the airport had 8,050 aircraft operations, average 22 per day: 93% general aviation, 4% air taxi, and 3% military. 50 aircraft were then based at the airport: 86% single-engine, 8% multi-engine, 4% jet and 2% helicopter. See also Texas World War II Army Airfields References External links Cox Field page at City of Paris website Aerial image as of 2 February 1995 from USGS The National Map Airports in Texas Buildings and structures in Lamar County, Texas Airfields of the United States Army Air Forces in Texas Airfields of the United States Army Air Forces Technical Service Command Transportation in Lamar County, Texas Former Essential Air Service airports Airports established in 1943 1943 establishments in Texas
The Milwaukee County Courthouse is a high-rise municipal building located in downtown Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Completed in 1931, it is the third county courthouse to be built in the city and is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. The first two courthouses were built at what is now Cathedral Square Park on the east side of the Milwaukee River. Description Situated on the crown of a hill, the eleven-story courthouse is 174 feet (54m) tall. The neoclassical style building was designed by New York architect Albert Randolph Ross, with the New York firm of McKim, Mead & White, chosen by a jury over 32 other architects from across the nation in a 1927 design competition. The building was clad in Bedford limestone and embellished with Beaux-Arts influenced details and sculpture such as owls and lion heads. The masonry work was provided by Andres Stone and Marble Company, owner Edgar Andres, whose family also helped construct the library and a local bank which is now the home for the Milwaukee Historical Society. The NRHP nomination observes, "the most monumental of all Neoclassical courthouses in the state, the Milwaukee County Courthouse is perhaps the apogee of the Neoclassical movement in twentieth century civic architecture in Wisconsin." While heralded as one of the grandest courthouses in the United States, it was once called a "million dollar rockpile" by famous American architect Frank Lloyd Wright. Civic space The Milwaukee County Courthouse is part of a greater civic space that includes not only the immediate area, but also the neighboring Milwaukee Public Museum, Central Library, and a swath of government buildings running east along Wells Street to the Milwaukee City Hall. Along the east side of the County Courthouse is a terraced commons area called MacArthur Square. It was dedicated on September 17, 1945, to General Douglas MacArthur, who attended West Division High School - now Milwaukee High School of the Arts. A parking garage was built underneath in 1967, which cuts in to the side of the hill. At the base of the building is the India-America Friendship Park and a statue in memory of Mahatma Gandhi. North 9th Street continues through as a tunnel between the building and parking structure. The MacArthur Square area has been criticized for its uninspired architecture and for noise pollution from the high capacity ventilation of the parking levels beneath it, which overpowers the water feature that was supposed to drown it out. Just to the north is the Milwaukee County Safety Building and Jail buildings. On the southern side of the courthouse is Clas Park, named for local architect and city planner Alfred Clas. The Kilbourn Tunnel, a connecting corridor to and from northbound I-43 at the Courthouse Annex on the west side of the building to Kilbourn Avenue (named for the founder of the Kilbourntown portion of Milwaukee, Byron Kilbourn), runs underneath the courthouse and surrounding civic area. Courthouse Annex The Milwaukee County Courthouse Annex was a five-story 447-space concrete parking facility that also housed limited office space. Built in the 1960s, it extended over the three northbound lanes of Interstate 43 (I-43) just north of the Marquette Interchange. On the north façade was a four-story, mural titled "Whale Commuters". It was donated by artist Robert Wyland, who is known for painting large outdoor murals of whales called Whaling Walls, and dedicated on September 15, 1997. Following some political controversy between then-Milwaukee County Executive Scott Walker and the Board of Supervisors, along with an unsuccessful offer by the Wisconsin Film Office to allow an implosion of the structure for any production interested in filming it for a demolition scene, the Annex was demolished as part of the interchange reconstruction. The last section came down on May 23, 2006, after a permit was obtained from the Federal Government to proceed in spite of some nesting seagulls and their eggs. Upon learning of the impending destruction of his mural, Wyland threatened legal action, citing the Visual Artists Rights Act which gives artists the right to protect their work. According to the contract he signed these rights were waived and Milwaukee County "reserves the right to remodel or demolish the building and/or remove the mural at any time." Since then, Wyland has offered to paint the Wells Street side of the Milwaukee Public Museum, the building he had originally wanted to do. However, as was the original problem, the museum has refused the offer due to the lack of any connection between Milwaukee and the ocean and therefore whales as well. A small section of the Whaling Wall containing an adult and baby dolphin was removed on May 2, 2006, prior to demolition. The dolphin section and a piece with the "Wyland" signature were installed at the northern portal of the Kilbourn Tunnel at I-43 northbound in February 2007, near the location of the former mural. See also MacArthur sculpture Gandhi sculpture The Spirit of Polonia sculpture References External links Milwaukee County Circuit Court Emporis building listing McKim, Mead & White buildings Landmarks in Wisconsin Skyscraper office buildings in Milwaukee Courthouse County courthouses in Wisconsin Courthouses on the National Register of Historic Places in Wisconsin National Register of Historic Places in Milwaukee Downtown Milwaukee
A records manager is the professional responsible for records management in an organization. This role has evolved over time and takes many forms, with many related areas of knowledge required for professional competency. Records managers are found in all types of organizations, including business, government, and nonprofit sectors. Generally, dedicated (i.e., full-time) records managers are found in larger organizations. History Records management evolved from the development of archives in the United States government following World War II. With the explosion of paper records during that war, better systems of management were needed to retain and make the records available for current use. Records managers became specialists that bridged the gap between file clerks and archivists. The profession expanded into the corporate world in the 1950s. Competencies The records manager generally provides expertise in records management, constituting knowledge areas of: Records creation and use Active and inactive records systems Records appraisal, retention and disposition Vital records identification and protection Records and information management technology The Records Manager may also have subject matter expertise in: Law Privacy and data protection Information technology and electronic storage systems General business principles Specialization Records managers are present in virtually every type of organization. The role can range from one of a file clerk to the chief information officer of an organization. Records managers may focus on operational responsibilities, design strategies and policies for maintaining and utilizing information, or combine elements of those jobs. The health care industry has a very specialized view of records management. Health information management involves not only maintaining patient files, but also coding the files to reflect the diagnoses of the conditions suffered by patients. The American Health Information Management Association (AHIMA) is the professional organization in this space. Records managers in the pharmaceutical industry are responsible for maintaining laboratory research, clinical trials data, and manufacturing information. Records managers in law firms often have responsibility for managing conflicts, as well as managing client matter files. In the United States, records managers in nuclear power plants specialize in compliance with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission rules regarding the handling of nuclear materials. NIRMA is their local professional organization. Education and certification Records managers may have degrees in a wide variety of subjects in all disciplines, and few universities offer formal records management education. Graduate-level programs are often specialties within Library Science and Archival Science programs. Graduate-level Public History programs generally offer coursework in archives and records management. A recent addition to records management education in the United States is the MARA – the Master of Archives and Records Administration degree program — offered by the San Jose State University School of Information. Professional and trade organizations offer continuing education conferences, seminars, and workshops. Governmental archives and records management departments such as the National Archives and Records Administration offer educational programs of interest to government records managers. A professional certification, the Certified Records Manager credential is offered by the Institute of Certified Records Managers. Other organizations may offer certificates reflecting completion of a course of studies, attendance at a seminar, or passing a subject matter test. See also Records management Records management taxonomy Institute of Certified Records Managers References Information management Records management
HFHS may refer to: Hales Franciscan High School, Chicago, Illinois, United States Henry Ford Health System, Detroit, Michigan, United States Henry Ford High School (Detroit, Michigan), United States Holy Family High School (disambiguation)
Harry Sparnaay (14 April 1944, Amsterdam – 12 December 2017, Lloret de Mar, Girona, Spain) was a noted Dutch bass clarinetist, composer, and teacher. Biography Harry Sparnaay studied at the Conservatory of Amsterdam with Ru Otto. After graduating with a performer's degree for clarinet, he specialized in bass clarinet and won the first prize at the International Gaudeamus Interpreters Competition, the first time ever a bass clarinettist had won this prestigious competition. He played solo at numerous important music festivals including Warsaw, New York, Los Angeles, Zagreb, the Holland Festival, several ISCM Festivals, Madrid, Paris and Athens. Other festivals at which Harry Sparnaay has performed include Witten, Aarhus, Como, Bolzano, Naples, Torino, Bourges, Middelburg, Graz, Salzburg, Huddersfield, Saarbrücken, Royan, Houston and many others. Sparnaay was a featured performer with many major orchestras and ensembles including the ASKO Ensemble, BBC Symphony Orchestra, Berlin Radio Symphony Orchestra, Concertgebouw Orchestra, Ensemble Intercontemporain, Melbourne Symphony, Pittsburgh New Music Ensemble, Netherlands Radio Chamber Philharmonic, Radio Filharmonisch Orkest, Residentie Orchestra, Rotterdam Philharmonic, Schönberg Ensemble, Seymour Group and has appeared with leading conductors including Luciano Berio, Riccardo Chailly, Richard Duffalo, Peter Eötvös, Reinbert de Leeuw, Diego Masson, Jacques Mercier, David Porcelijn, David Stock, Mark Summerbell, Lucas Vis and Hans Vonk. He gave concerts and made radio recordings throughout Asia, Europe, North America, Oceania, and South America, performing works written for and dedicated to him. More than 650 pieces have been written for him by composers such as Claudio Ambrosini, Luciano Berio, Gerard Brophy, Philip Czaplowski, Paul-Heinz Dittrich, Franco Donatoni, Morton Feldman, Brian Ferneyhough, Mary Finsterer, Andrew Ford, Jonathan Harvey, Maki Ishii, Sukhi Kang, Tristan Keuris, Mark Kopytman, Helmut Lachenmann, Ton de Leeuw, Theo Loevendie, Roderik de Man, Takayuki Rai, Michael Smetanin, Gérard Grisey, Maurice Weddington, Iannis Xenakis, Isang Yun and many others. He gave the world premiere of In Freundschaft (bass clarinet version) and Solo (bass-and contrabass clarinet version–adaption by Barry Anderson) by Karlheinz Stockhausen and was one of the soloists in Die Verwandlung by Paul-Heinz Dittrich and in the operas Naima by Theo Loevendie, Prometeo by Luigi Nono, and A King, Riding by Klaas de Vries. During the 1999 Holland festival he was one of the instrumental soloists in Kopernikus by Claude Vivier. His composition Bouwstenen (Building Blocks) for bass clarinet and multiple tape-delay system was chosen for the ISCM World Music Days in Denmark. Harry Sparnaay was musician-in-residence and gave masterclasses at several universities all over the world and was professor of bass clarinet and contemporary music at the Conservatory of Amsterdam for 35 years, where his unique bass clarinet program attracted students from all over the world, many of them prize winners of major competitions. Sparnaay founded the duo Fusion Moderne with pianist Polo de Haas, and also the Bass Clarinet Collective (9 bass clarinets, including 3 contrabass clarinets). Together with flautist Harrie Starreveld and pianist René Eckhardt he formed Het Trio in 1984. Over 180 pieces have been written for this group. With Annelie de Man (Harpsichord) he founded the Duo Double_Action performing new compositions written for them for bass clarinet and harpsichord by composers such as Joe Cutler, Roderik de Man, Victor Varela, David Vayo, and Raymond Deane. With his wife Silvia Castillo (organ) he formed the Duo LEVENT and together they performed in Europe, Canada, Mexico, Australia and the United States, playing several new pieces for organ and bass clarinet, especially written for them by composers such as Dai Fujikura, Matthias Kadar, Roderik de Man, Toek Numan, Ignacio Baca Lobera, and Lucien Goethals. He played as soloist, with the trio, or in other combinations on more than 60 CDs and his CD with HET TRIO of music by Ton de Leeuw received an EDISON award. In Barcelona he formed the Trio PHONOS with Jean-Pierre Dupuy piano and Peter Bacchus flute and with pianist Jean-Pierre Dupuy the Duo Sparnaay/Dupuy. His television productions have been broadcast in the Netherlands, Belgium, Poland, and Yugoslavia. He has been a jury member at the International Gaudeamus Contest several times and has also been a member of the Dutch Section of the ISCM. As the conductor of the ensemble for New Music he conducted compositions by Arnold Schoenberg (Pierrot Lunaire and Serenade), Pierre Boulez, Elliott Carter, Olivier Messiaen, Theo Loevendie, Franco Donatoni, Ross Harris, Joe Cutler, Toshio Hosokawa, Mary Finsterer, and Iannis Xenakis, and during the International Gaudeamus Music Week he conducted the ensemble in pieces by the youngest generation. From September 2005 until September 2010 he was Professor for bass clarinet at the ESMUC in Barcelona. Awards First Prize Gaudeamus Contest (1972), Swedish Record Prize (1985), Bulgarian Composers Union Award (1987), Inaugural Sounds Australian Award (1988), Edison Award (1995), and Jan van Gilse Prize (1996). In April 2004 he was honoured by the Queen and decorated by the Mayor of Amsterdam and became KNIGHT IN THE ORDER OF THE LION OF THE NETHERLANDS. Teaching In 30 years Sparnaay was professor of musicians who came from all over the world, a selection per country of origin: Austria: Petra Stump-Linshalm Germany: Tobias Klein, Lothar Ohlmeier Mexico: Fernando Dominguez Netherlands: Jelte Althuis, Henri Bok, Jacques Dubois, Fie Schouten Switzerland: Ernesto Molinari Turkey: Oguz Büyükberber UK: Sarah Watts USA: Laura Carmichael, Lori Freedman, Michael Lowenstern Remembering Sparnaay Sources Diederichs-Lafite, Marion. 1976. Wittener Tage für neue Kammermusik. Österreichische Musikzeitschrift 31 (July–August): 382–84. Heim, Norman. 1979. "Music for the Bass Clarinet". The Clarinet 6, no. 3 (Spring): 18–21. Heim, Norman. 1979. "Music for the Bass Clarinet Part II". The Clarinet 7, no. 1 (Fall): 22–23, 26. Heim, Norman. 1980. "Music for the Bass Clarinet Part III: A Sparnaay Collage". The Clarinet 7, no. 3 (Spring): 22–24. Heim, Norman. 1980. "Music for the Bass Clarinet Part IV: An Interview with Harry Sparnaay". The Clarinet 7, no. 4 (Summer): 14–18. Schwartz, Elliott. 1972. "Current Chronicle: The Netherlands". The Musical Quarterly 58, no. 4 (October): 653–58. Slonimsky, Nicolas, Laura Kuhn, and Dennis McIntire. 2001. "Sparnaay, Harry". Baker’s Biographical Dictionary of Musicians, centennial edition, 6 vols., Nicolas Slonimsky, editor emeritus; Laura Kuhn, Baker's series advisory editor, 5:3416. New York: Schirmer Books. . [In the online edition as "Spamaay, Hany", New York: Schirmer Reference, 2001. Gale Virtual Reference Library. (Subscription access)] Sparnaay, Harry. 2011. "The Bass Clarinet: A Personal History", translated by A. de Man and P. Roe. Barcelona: Periferia Sheet Music. Accompanied by a CD with over 100 audio examples. Tra, Gijs. 1978. "Bass Clarinet Identity (Interview with H. Sparnaay)". Key Notes 7, no. 1:36–37. Werker, Gerard. 1972. "Vrijpostig musiceren: het Gaudeamus-Concours 1972". Mens en Melodie, Tijdschrift voor muziek 27 (June): 171–74. Werker, Gerard. 1974. "Harry Sparnaay, basklarinettist—de emancipatie van de basklarinet". Mens en Melodie, Tijdschrift voor muziek 29 (December): 370–73. References https://clarinet.org/remembering-harry-sparnaay/ External links 1944 births 2017 deaths Bass clarinetists Dutch clarinetists Musicians from Amsterdam Conservatorium van Amsterdam alumni
The Plum River is a tributary of the Mississippi River, about long, in northwestern Illinois in the United States. It rises in Jo Daviess County and flows generally south-southwestwardly into Carroll County, where it joins the Mississippi at Savanna. Among its several short tributaries are: The East Plum River, which rises in Stephenson County and flows southwestwardly into Carroll County, joining the Plum at The Muddy Plum River, which flows for its entire length in Jo Daviess County. It joins the Plum River at The Middle Fork Plum River joins the Plum River at The North Fork Plum River has its confluence with the Plum River at See also List of Illinois rivers References Columbia Gazetteer of North America entry DeLorme (2003). Illinois Atlas & Gazetteer. Yarmouth, Maine: DeLorme. . Rivers of Illinois Tributaries of the Mississippi River Rivers of Carroll County, Illinois Rivers of Jo Daviess County, Illinois Rivers of Stephenson County, Illinois
Dean Butler OAM (born 26 January 1977 in Warwick, Queensland) is a field hockey defender from Australia, who was a member of the team that won the gold medal at the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens. He is nicknamed Butts, and played club hockey for the Queensland Blades in his native country, with whom he won the national title in 2003. Butler was promoted to the senior squad following the 1998 Men's Hockey World Cup. In 2001 he was named Player of the Year in Queensland. References Profile on Hockey Australia External links 1977 births Australian male field hockey players Olympic field hockey players for Australia Male field hockey defenders Field hockey players at the 2004 Summer Olympics 2002 Men's Hockey World Cup players 2006 Men's Hockey World Cup players Recipients of the Medal of the Order of Australia People from Warwick, Queensland Living people Olympic gold medalists for Australia Commonwealth Games gold medallists for Australia Field hockey players at the 2006 Commonwealth Games Olympic medalists in field hockey Medalists at the 2004 Summer Olympics Commonwealth Games medallists in field hockey Medallists at the 2006 Commonwealth Games Sportsmen from Queensland
Grady High School may refer to: Grady High School (Arkansas) (closed) — Grady, Arkansas, Grady School District Henry W. Grady High School — Atlanta, Georgia Grady High School (New Mexico) — Grady, New Mexico H. Grady Spruce High School — Dallas, Texas Grady High School — Lenorah, Texas, Grady Independent School District William E. Grady High School — New York City, New York
Curt Menefee (born July 22, 1965) is an American sportscaster who hosts the Fox Network's NFL pregame show Fox NFL Sunday. Early life and education Menefee was born and raised in Atlanta, Georgia. Menefee earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from Coe College in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. At Coe, he was a member of the Sigma Nu fraternity and inducted into the Sigma Nu Hall of Fame in 2016. He gave the commencement speech at Coe College in 2010 and was awarded an honorary doctorate in Journalism. In 2021, Menefee was attending Northwestern University enrolled in the university's Master's in Public Policy & Administration program with plans to relocate to Chicago full-time. Career Prior to joining Fox Sports full-time, he was a sports reporter for MSG Network's SportsDesk show. Prior to that, he was the sports anchor for WNYW, New York City's Fox flagship station. He also appeared on-air on WTLV in Jacksonville, Florida. He also hosted a radio show on the popular Dallas, Texas sports radio station KTCK ("1310 The Ticket"). He worked at WISC-TV (CBS) in Madison, Wisconsin as a sports anchor and reporter. He was also the sports anchor for Dallas-Fort Worth's then-independent station and now CBS affiliate KTVT. Fox Sports He began his career at Fox Sports in 1997 as a sideline reporter, then moved to play-by-play for Fox's NFL Europe and Fox NFL coverage on FOX Sports and FSN. In 2007, Menefee became the host of Fox NFL Sunday. On May 24, 2008, Menefee made an appearance on MLB on Fox. He held play-by-play duties alongside José Mota during a game between the Los Angeles Angels and the Chicago White Sox. On May 22, 2010, Menefee hosted Fox's coverage of the UEFA Champions League Final between Inter Milan and Bayern Munich in the first broadcast of that tournament's championship game on over-the-air broadcast television in the United States. On November 12, 2011, Menefee became the host of the UFC on Fox with Randy Couture and Jon Jones. He continued to serve as host until ESPN took the rights to broadcast UFC. In 2015, he hosted the inaugural coverage of FOX Sports coverage of the U.S. Open Championship in 2015. On February 8, 2020, Menefee called an XFL game between the LA Wildcats and the Houston Roughnecks. NFL Preseason Football Menefee called the NFL preseason for the Jaguars TV network from 2005 to 2007. He formerly called play-by-play for Seattle Seahawks preseason games from 2008 through the 2022 season, with Michael Robinson, Dave Wyman, and Matt Devlin doing color commentary on KCPQ and KZJO (replay). Boxing Menefee also provided ringside commentary for Top Rank's coverage of the Pacquiao-Hatton fight. He was also the play-by-play announcer for Showtime Championship Boxing. On January 7, 2012, Menefee announced he was leaving ShoBox. Personal life Menefee resides in Los Angeles, California. References 1965 births Living people African-American sports journalists African-American television personalities American sports journalists American sports radio personalities American television sports anchors American television sports announcers Association football commentators Boxing commentators Coe College alumni Golf writers and broadcasters Jacksonville Jaguars announcers Major League Baseball broadcasters Mixed martial arts broadcasters National Football League announcers Television anchors from New York City NFL Europe broadcasters XFL (2020) broadcasters 21st-century American journalists 21st-century African-American people 20th-century African-American people
Cee-Lo Green... Is the Soul Machine is the second studio album by Cee Lo Green, released on March 2, 2004. Legacy The album was included in the book 1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die. Singles "I'll Be Around" (#52) (Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs) "The One" (#82) (Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs) Track listing Credits adapted from the album's liner notes. Sample credits "The Art of Noise" contains replayed elements from "These Eyes", written by Burton Cummings and Randy Bachman. "The One" contains samples from: "Devotion", written by Philip Bailey and Maurice White, and performed by Earth, Wind & Fire. "Public Enemy No. 1", written by Carlton Ridenhour and Hank Shocklee, and performed by Public Enemy. "My Kind of People" contains re-sung elements from "Pass the Dutchie", written by Donat Mittoo, Headley Bennett, Lloyd Ferguson, Leroy Sibbles, Robert Lyn, Huford Brown, and Fitzroy Simpson. "Evening News" contains samples from "Return from the Ashes (Theme)", written and performed by John Dankworth. "Glockapella" contains samples from "Holy Ghost", written by James Banks, Eddie Marion, and Henderson Thigpen, and performed by The Bar-Kays. Charts Weekly charts Year-end charts References 2004 albums CeeLo Green albums Albums produced by Timbaland Albums produced by the Neptunes Albums produced by Jazze Pha Albums produced by DJ Premier Albums produced by Organized Noize
Lu Guang is the name of: Lü Guang (337–400), 3rd-century Chinese emperor Lu Guang (painter), Yuan dynasty (1271–1368) Chinese landscape painter and poet Lu Guang (photographer) (born 1961), Chinese photographer
"If You Want Me to Stay" is a 1973 hit single by Sly and the Family Stone, from their album Fresh. Background Stone recorded the song without much input from the rest of the band; by the early 1970s, he had begun crafting most of his material by himself. An alternate version of "If You Want Me to Stay", as well as most of the rest of the Fresh album, was completed before Stone decided to scrap the masters and re-record the album. These alternate versions have surfaced in underground markets, online auctions, and specialty shops. However, five bonus tracks are included in Epic's 2007 reissue of Fresh, all of which are directly from the alternate mix of the album. Record World said that it "is as bizarre as his other outings and just as commercial." Song analysis The lyrics of "If You Want Me to Stay" feature frontman Sly Stone informing his lover that she has to let him be himself, otherwise he feels that he would have to leave. The composition has its origins in an apology Stone wrote to his future wife, Kathleen Silva, after a fight. Chart performance "If You Want Me to Stay" was the band's final Top 20 pop hit, and is the best-known of its post-There's a Riot Goin' On recordings. The single reached number 12 on the Pop Chart, and number three on the Billboard R&B Singles Chart. Personnel Sly Stone — vocals, guitar, piano, organ, bass guitar Andy Newmark — drums Cynthia Robinson — trumpet Jerry Martini — saxophone Pat Rizzo — saxophone Note: A transcription of the bass part for this song appears in the October 2006 issue of Bass Player magazine (pages 78–81). According to the article "Rustee Allen’s Complete Bass Line: Sly & The Family Stone's 'If You Want Me To Stay'" accompanying the transcription, written by Chris Jisi: "The ambitiously named 'Fresh' hit the streets in early July. A stripped-down, more raw outing than previous Sly albums, the 11-track set was boosted by the bass waves of Graham's hand-picked replacement, Rustee Allen. Sly himself laid down some of the album's bass tracks." Mica Paris version British soul singer Mica Paris released a version of "Stay" in 1998, as the lead single from her fourth album, Black Angel (1998). Her version spent two weeks on the UK Singles Chart before peaking at number forty on May 16, 1998. It also reached the top forty of the New Zealand Singles Chart. Critical reception British magazine Music Week wrote, "Paris adds characteristic — if slightly mannered — vocal swoops to a faithful rendition of the Sly & The Family Stone classic. Still, it's a welcome return for one of the best soul voices the UK has yet produced and provides a taste of her long-delayed forthcoming album Black Angel." Track listing CD single Credits and personnel Performers Vocals - Mica Paris Backing Vocals – Jackie Farris, Jackie Gouche, Jackie Smiley Bass – Raphael Saadiq Drum Programming – Richie Stevens Guitar – Keven Frost Keyboards – Pete Adams Remix – Richie Stevens Saxophone [Tenor] – Ben Castle Trumpet – Raul D'Oliveira Charts Weekly charts Year-end charts Cover versions The song has been covered extensively since its introduction, by artists including Etta James, Eric Benet, Mercury Rev, Victor Wooten, Soulive, Pama International, Ronny, Kermit Ruffins, and the Red Hot Chili Peppers. The song has also been featured in the movies Made in Heaven, Talk to Me, Dead Presidents, and Money Talks. In 2020, Ari Lennox and Anthony Ramos released a cover in partnership with Main Street Alliance — a nonprofit organization committed to supporting small businesses in the United States — and Crown Royal in donation to help the landmark small businesses and communities all over the country. Sample As with most of Sly Stone's work, many songs have sampled the bass line from "If You Want Me to Stay", including: Dre' Dog, aka Andre Nickatina, in his 1991 album The New Jim Jones in the song "Summer in Florida". Dana Dane from the 1990 album Dana Dane 4 Ever in the song "Tales from the Dane Side". References 1973 singles Sly and the Family Stone songs Prince (musician) songs Red Hot Chili Peppers songs Song recordings produced by Sly Stone Songs written by Sly Stone 1973 songs Epic Records singles Mica Paris songs 1998 singles
Paul Leslie Snider (April 15, 1951 – August 14, 1980) was a Canadian nightclub promoter and pimp who murdered his estranged wife, Playboy model and actress Dorothy Stratten. Following her murder, Snider killed himself. Biography Snider was born in Vancouver. By the mid-1970s, he was a nightclub promoter and pimp. In 1977, he met Dorothy Stratten at a Vancouver-area Dairy Queen, where she was working part-time while still attending high school. In 1979, Snider sent professionally taken nude photographs of Stratten to Playboy magazine and she was chosen as a Playmate for the month of August that year. Snider and Stratten moved to Los Angeles and married on June 1 in Las Vegas. While Stratten worked as a "bunny" at the Century City Playboy Club, and was cast in a few television and film roles, Snider had engaged in numerous get-rich-quick schemes, including building and selling exercise benches. Stratten helped support Snider financially throughout their short marriage. In 1980, Stratten was named Playboys Playmate of the Year and was cast in the movie They All Laughed (1981) directed by Peter Bogdanovich, with whom she began an affair. Stratten and Snider separated and he hired a private investigator to follow her. Death On August 14, 1980, Dorothy Stratten was shot and killed in the West Los Angeles house she had shared with Snider, whose body was found next to hers. Police believed Snider raped and murdered Stratten, and then killed himself with the same shotgun. Snider's remains are buried at Schara Tzedeck Cemetery in New Westminster, British Columbia. In popular culture Snider has been portrayed in three films. The first was a made-for-television movie about the murder titled Death of a Centerfold: The Dorothy Stratten Story (1981), which starred Jamie Lee Curtis as Stratten and Bruce Weitz as Snider. Bob Fosse's film Star 80 (1983) dramatized Stratten's life and death. Mariel Hemingway played Stratten, and Eric Roberts portrayed Snider. In the series Welcome to Chippendales, he was played by Dan Stevens. References External links 1951 births 1980 deaths 1980 murders in the United States 1980 suicides 20th-century Canadian criminals Burials in British Columbia Canadian Jews Canadian rapists Canadian male criminals Canadian murderers Crime in California Deaths by firearm in California Domestic violence in the United States Male murderers Murder–suicides in California People from Vancouver Suicides by firearm in California Violence against women in the United States
In statistics, (between-) study heterogeneity is a phenomenon that commonly occurs when attempting to undertake a meta-analysis. In a simplistic scenario, studies whose results are to be combined in the meta-analysis would all be undertaken in the same way and to the same experimental protocols. Differences between outcomes would only be due to measurement error (and studies would hence be homogeneous). Study heterogeneity denotes the variability in outcomes that goes beyond what would be expected (or could be explained) due to measurement error alone. Introduction Meta-analysis is a method used to combine the results of different trials in order to obtain a quantitative synthesis. The size of individual clinical trials is often too small to detect treatment effects reliably. Meta-analysis increases the power of statistical analyses by pooling the results of all available trials. As one tries to use meta-analysis to estimate a combined effect from a group of similar studies, the effects found in the individual studies need to be similar enough that one can be confident that a combined estimate will be a meaningful description of the set of studies. However, the individual estimates of treatment effect will vary by chance; some variation is expected due to observational error. Any excess variation (whether it is apparent or detectable or not) is called (statistical) heterogeneity. The presence of some heterogeneity is not unusual, e.g., analogous effects are also commonly encountered even within studies, in multicenter trials (between-center heterogeneity). Reasons for the additional variability are usually differences in the studies themselves, the investigated populations, treatment schedules, endpoint definitions, or other circumstances ("clinical diversity"), or the way data were analyzed, what models were employed, or whether estimates have been adjusted in some way ("methodological diversity"). Different types of effect measures (e.g., odds ratio vs. relative risk) may also be more or less susceptible to heterogeneity. Modeling In case the origin of heterogeneity can be identified and may be attributed to certain study features, the analysis may be stratified (by considering subgroups of studies, which would then hopefully be more homogeneous), or by extending the analysis to a meta-regression, accounting for (continuous or categorical) moderator variables. Unfortunately, literature-based meta-analysis may often not allow for gathering data on all (potentially) relevant moderators. In addition, heterogeneity is usually accommodated by using a random effects model, in which the heterogeneity then constitutes a variance component. The model represents the lack of knowledge about why treatment effects may differ by treating the (potential) differences as unknowns. The centre of this symmetric distribution describes the average of the effects, while its width describes the degree of heterogeneity. The obvious and conventional choice of distribution is a normal distribution. It is difficult to establish the validity of any distributional assumption, and this is a common criticism of random effects meta-analyses. However, variations of the exact distributional form may not make much of a difference, and simulations have shown that methods are relatively robust even under extreme distributional assumptions, both in estimating heterogeneity, and calculating an overall effect size. Inclusion of a random effect to the model has the effect of making the inferences (in a sense) more conservative or cautious, as a (non-zero) heterogeneity will lead to greater uncertainty (and avoid overconfidence) in the estimation of overall effects. In the special case of a zero heterogeneity variance, the random-effects model again reduces to the special case of the common-effect model. Common meta-analysis models, however, should of course not be applied blindly or naively to collected sets of estimates. In case the results to be amalgamated differ substantially (in their contexts or in their estimated effects), a derived meta-analytic average may eventually not correspond to a reasonable estimand. When individual studies exhibit conflicting results, there likely are some reasons why the results differ; for instance, two subpopulations may experience different pharmacokinetic pathways. In such a scenario, it would be important to both know and consider relevant covariables in an analysis. Testing Statistical testing for a non-zero heterogeneity variance is often done based on Cochran's Q or related test procedures. This common procedure however is questionable for several reasons, namely, the low power of such tests especially in the very common case of only few estimates being combined in the analysis, as well as the specification of homogeneity as the null hypothesis which is then only rejected in the presence of sufficient evidence against it. Estimation While the main purpose of a meta-analysis usually is estimation of the main effect, investigation of the heterogeneity is also crucial for its interpretation. A large number of (frequentist and Bayesian) estimators is available. Bayesian estimation of the heterogeneity usually requires the specification of an appropriate prior distribution. While many of these estimators behave similarly in case of a large number of studies, differences in particular arise in their behaviour in the common case of only few estimates. An incorrect zero between-study variance estimate is frequently obtained, leading to a false homogeneity assumption. Overall, it appears that heterogeneity is being consistently underestimated in meta-analyses. Quantification The heterogeneity variance is commonly denoted by τ², or the standard deviation (its square root) by τ. Heterogeneity is probably most readily interpretable in terms of τ, as this is the heterogeneity distribution's scale parameter, which is measured in the same units as the overall effect itself. Another common measure of heterogeneity is I², a statistic that indicates the percentage of variance in a meta-analysis that is attributable to study heterogeneity (somewhat similarly to a coefficient of determination). I² relates the heterogeneity variance's magnitude to the size of the individual estimates' variances (squared standard errors); with this normalisation however, it is not quite obvious what exactly would constitute "small" or "large" amounts of heterogeneity. For a constant heterogeneity (τ), the availability of smaller or larger studies (with correspondingly differing standard errors associated) would affect the I² measure; so the actual interpretation of an I² value is not straightforward. The joint consideration of a prediction interval along with a confidence interval for the main effect may help getting a better sense of the contribution of heterogeneity to the uncertainty around the effect estimate. See also Homogeneity (statistics) Random effects model Standard deviation, scale parameter, variance Meta-regression References Further reading Systematic review Meta-analysis
(English: Curtain, Jug and Fruit Bowl) is an oil on canvas painting created to 1894 by French artist Paul Cézanne. It is a formal still life composition that displays Cézanne's exploration of form, balance and symmetry in objects. On 10 May 1999, the painting was sold at Sotheby's auction for $60.5 million, making it the most expensive still life painting ever sold at an auction. Background Cézanne explored various genres throughout his artistic career, including landscapes and portraiture, but repeatedly returned to the subject of still life. It was a genre that historically had been disregarded in art as unimaginative, yet Cézanne challenged the establishment by focusing on everyday objects. He was particularly drawn to fruit, which he used to explore the correspondence between objects and the harmony and balance of composition. Although his objects appear to have been placed randomly, the images were carefully constructed to experiment with perspective. Cézanne was fascinated by the exploration of optics in art. His still life paintings were a study in the geometric forms of objects and also in the shifting ways that our eyes view them. He attempted to depict objects from various perspectives to capture the complexity of the visual image. He wrote that, "Painting from nature is not copying the object, it is realising one's sensations". Cézanne's distinctive brushwork and distortion of the subject eventually influenced new art styles during the 20th century such as Cubism. Description This painting is a formal representation of its subject title, depicting a wooden table upon which are placed a large earthenware jug and a fruit bowl stacked with apples and oranges. To the left of the painting a curtain hangs in front of a patterned wall. A white cloth has been draped across the table with various fruits placed among its folds. The composition displays a study of outlines and a symmetry of objects. The earthenware jug has been depicted in a unique manner, in contradiction to ordinary perspective, and has been adapted to the shapes of the fruit and the other elements of the composition. The rich colours of the objects have been individually rendered with a full range of varying shades. Provenance The painting was owned by Paul Gauguin and subsequently owned by Ambroise Vollard, Cornelis Hoogendijk, Paul Rosenberg, Albert C. Barnes, and the Carroll Carstairs Gallery. On 10 May 1999, the painting was sold at Sotheby's, New York City for $60,502,500 (equivalent to $ million in ), a record price, during the sale of the Whitney family collection. Billionaire Ken Griffin purchased the painting to add to his private collection. The painting was later resold to Steve Wynn in August 1999 in a private sale for an undisclosed price. Other version A second version of the work, painted by Cézanne in the same year under the same title, is in a private collection. See also List of paintings by Paul Cézanne The Basket of Apples Still Life with Teapot List of most expensive paintings References External links Artnet 1894 paintings Paintings by Paul Cézanne Still life paintings
Howard David is an American sportscaster. Biography Over the years, David has been the radio play-by-play man for several pro sports teams including the NBA's New Jersey Nets, Milwaukee Bucks and Boston Celtics and the NFL's New York Jets and Miami Dolphins. He also had stints with the New York Cosmos soccer team and as the voice of Princeton University basketball and football. Mizlou Television Network, CBS Radio/Westwood One Howard David was discovered by Mizlou Television Network President Bill Schwing while working as a morning DJ in Trenton, New Jersey. He soon became the top announcer for Mizlou, covering more than 300 sporting events including major college football bowl games, NIT basketball, NASL soccer and college bowling. David also worked for the CBS Radio (later Westwood One) network as lead play-by-play voice for its Sunday Night Football coverage until 1995, when he was promoted by CBS Radio to take Jack Buck's place on the network's Monday Night Football broadcasts. In 1998, David added a second full-time position when he joined WFAN (also a CBS property) to become the play-by-play voice for the New York Jets after Ian Eagle became a part of CBS television's return to NFL coverage. David's Jets assignment took precedence over his Westwood One duties, requiring a substitute when the Jets would play on Monday night or in the playoffs. One prime example of this came on Conference Championship weekend in 1999. At the time, CBS would send the Monday night crew to cover the NFC Championship Game, which featured Falcons and the Vikings in Minneapolis. However, the Jets had also advanced to championship weekend and were to take on the Broncos in Denver later that afternoon. David followed the Jets' broadcast team to Denver while John Rooney, one of the network's secondary announcers, called the NFC title game alongside Matt Millen. At the end of the 1999 season, the Jets returned to their long-time radio home at WABC and David followed the team there while keeping his contract with Westwood One. Following Super Bowl XXXVI, David left the Jets and departed Westwood One to take a job in Miami, where he served as the Miami Dolphins' radio voice on WQAM and also hosted a talk show, known as Moe Howard David on the station. Moe’s favorite catchphrase: “Doy Doy Doy” was a favorite among the stations listeners. His contract was not renewed after the 2004 season, as he and analyst Jim Mandich were fired by new coach Nick Saban. After his assignments ended, David returned to national broadcasts, becoming one of SportsUSA's NFL voices. He called games for that network until 2008. Recent assignments David became one of Westwood One's NFL voices, having replaced Bill Rosinski in the booth for the Sunday doubleheader coverage the network carries. He also served as a substitute for Dave Sims on Sunday nights when his other broadcasting endeavors left him unavailable. David was joined in the booth by Tony Boselli until 2012. Tom McCarthy replaced David in the booth. As of 2012, Dial Global's other NFL play-by-play announcers include Kevin Kugler, Kevin Harlan, Dave Sims and Ian Eagle. In 2006, David provided hand-by-hand coverage for many events at the World Series of Poker for Sirius Satellite Radio. In 2012, David became the play-by-play voice for the United Football League broadcasts on the CBS Sports Network. In 2013, he served as a fill-in play-by-play commentator for Major League Baseball on Fox. References External links GolfPodium.com profile College football announcers College basketball announcers in the United States American radio sports announcers New York Jets announcers Miami Dolphins announcers United Football League broadcasters Milwaukee Bucks announcers National Basketball Association broadcasters Boston Celtics announcers Living people New Jersey Nets announcers WFAN people Year of birth missing (living people) Poker commentators Major League Baseball broadcasters Princeton Tigers football Princeton Tigers men's basketball Association football commentators National Football League announcers North American Soccer League (1968–1984) commentators
No Exit (also known as Fatal Combat) is a 1995 Canadian action film directed by Damian Lee and starring Jeff Wincott and Sven-Ole Thorsen as the leading hero and main villain, respectively. It is about deadly martial arts combat, and the hero is forced into fights by evil money-men. Plot Far above the Arctic Circle is based a TV channel, on which there is only one program—"No Exit". Melee and death in the air. University Professor John Stoneman is abducted be the channel owner. No way out and no chance to survive. For John Stoneman there seems to be no escape. References External links 1995 films 1995 action films 1995 martial arts films Films directed by Damian Lee Films produced by Damian Lee Films about kidnapping Films with screenplays by Damian Lee 1990s English-language films Canadian martial arts films
Troy Elder OAM (born 15 October 1977 in Bunbury, Western Australia) is a field hockey striker and midfielder from Australia, who was a member of the Men's National Team that won the golden medal at the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens. Four years earlier, when Sydney hosted the Olympic Games, Elder finished in third spot with The Kookaburras, as the national team is called. Elder originated from Bundaberg, Queensland, where he played for the All Blacks Hockey Club. Nicknamed Woody, Elder shot into limelight as a player with the National Junior Squad, that won the Hockey Junior World Cup at Milton Keynes in 1997 against India. After the 1998 Australian Hockey League season with the Queensland Blades, Elder got into the senior National Squad at the 1998 Champions Trophy in Lahore, where Australia won the bronze. He was part of the winning team in the 1999 Champions Trophy at Brisbane. Just like his countrymen Jay Stacy and Michael Brennan, Elder moved to the Netherlands, where he played club hockey for Eindhoven's Oranje Zwart, with whom he won the Dutch title in the spring of 2005. The price was high, because during the Dutch play-offs he neglected the call from Australia's Head Coach Barry Dancer to come over for a training session with the men's National Team. He therefore had to miss the 2005 Champions Trophy in Chennai and the 2006 Commonwealth Games in Melbourne. Having retired from international hockey, Elder played club hockey for United Hockey in Brisbane for some time whilst still representing the Queensland Blades. A plumber by profession, he is fond of surfing and fishing. References External links Profile on Hockey Australia 1977 births Olympic field hockey players for Australia Australian male field hockey players Male field hockey forwards Male field hockey midfielders Field hockey players at the 2000 Summer Olympics 2002 Men's Hockey World Cup players Field hockey players at the 2004 Summer Olympics 2006 Men's Hockey World Cup players Recipients of the Medal of the Order of Australia Sportspeople from Bunbury, Western Australia Field hockey people from Western Australia Living people Olympic gold medalists for Australia Olympic bronze medalists for Australia Olympic medalists in field hockey Medalists at the 2004 Summer Olympics Medalists at the 2000 Summer Olympics Commonwealth Games medallists in field hockey Commonwealth Games gold medallists for Australia Oranje Zwart players Australian expatriate sportspeople in the Netherlands Expatriate field hockey players Field hockey players at the 2002 Commonwealth Games Medallists at the 2002 Commonwealth Games Sportsmen from Western Australia
Jimmie Lee Sloas is an American session musician, producer, and songwriter, who plays bass guitar. History Jimmie Lee Sloas, born in Ashland, Kentucky, grew up in Fairborn, Ohio and Isonville, Kentucky. His father, Dave, was a member of the popular bluegrass group, The Sloas Brothers. His older brother, David, served as Tammy Wynette's lead guitarist from the early 1980s until her death. In 1982, Sloas co-founded, with singer-songwriter Robert White Johnson, the album-oriented rock band RPM. The band released two albums between 1982 and 1984, with the albums produced by Brent Maher and Gary Langan, respectively. From 1986 to 1990, Sloas was a member of the contemporary Christian vocal band The Imperials (as lead singer and sometimes bass player). He holds several session musician and production credits, primarily in country & contemporary Christian music with artists such as Garth Brooks, Carrie Underwood, Keith Urban, Carman, LeAnn Rimes, Kellie Pickler, Reba McEntire, PFR, Switchfoot, and Jessica Simpson. In 1996, he co-founded the group Dogs of Peace with former Whiteheart guitarist Gordon Kennedy. Sloas also recorded with the heavy metal band Megadeth on their album The System Has Failed. He was nominated for Top Bass Player of the Year in the 2006, 2008, and 2009 Academy of Country Music awards. Sloas is co-producer, with Bob Ezrin, of the artist Christian Kane for Bigger Picture Group, at Anarchy Studios in Nashville. References American country bass guitarists American heavy metal bass guitarists Living people People from Fairborn, Ohio American male bass guitarists Guitarists from Ohio Country musicians from Ohio 1959 births
Addison Airport is a public airport in Addison, in Dallas County, Texas, United States, north of downtown Dallas. It opened in 1954 and was purchased by the town of Addison in 1976. It is home to the Cavanaugh Flight Museum. The Addison Airport Toll Tunnel, completed in 1999, allows east–west automobile traffic to cross the airport under the runway. Facilities and aircraft Addison Airport covers ; its one runway, 16/34, is concrete. In 2015 it had 96,476 aircraft operations, averaging 264 per day: 93% general aviation, 7% air taxi, <1% airline and <1% military. 621 aircraft were then based at the airport: 323 single-engine, 111 multi-engine, 176 jet and 11 helicopter. In 2022, its runway designation was changed from 15/33 to 16/34. The currently fixed-base operators at Addison airport are Atlantic Aviation, Landmark Aviation, Million Air and Galaxy. Charter services are available from a variety of companies, with Business Jet Solutions and Bombardier FlexJet having large operations. The airport is the headquarters of Ameristar Jet Charter, GTA Air, and Martinaire, and also has scheduled freight flights from AirNet Express, Flight Express, and Flight Development. It is also a training hub, with primary to advanced flight instruction available from Thrust Flight School, American Flyers, ATP Flight School, Monarch Air and PlaneSmart!. Airlines and destinations Cargo Accidents and incidents July 19, 1986: All four occupants of a Cessna 421, aircraft registration N6VR, were killed when the aircraft suffered an apparent right-hand engine failure, rolled over, and dived into a vacant lot immediately after takeoff from Addison Airport. The post-crash investigation revealed that the right-hand engine did not show any obvious signs of failure and its controls were not set to deliver full takeoff power. The crash was attributed to incorrect engine control operation; the pilot had recently purchased the Cessna 421 but had not been formally trained to fly it, and most of his twin-engined experience had been in an airplane with engine controls that operated in the reverse direction of those in the Cessna. June 20, 1992: The pilot of a Piper J3C-65 Cub, registered N3128M, reported trouble and attempted to return to Addison Airport soon after taking off to test a newly installed engine. While turning to line up with the runway, the airplane suddenly lost altitude, rolled upside down, and crashed in the middle of nearby Beltway Drive, killing the pilot and his passenger. The crash was attributed to breakage of the left-hand elevator control tube due to corrosion. January 1, 2004: The pilot and passenger of a Bellanca 17-30A Super Viking, registered N4104B, died when the aircraft struck houses in the Preston Hollow neighborhood of nearby Dallas, Texas, after departing from Addison Airport bound for Amarillo, Texas. An intense post-crash fire destroyed two houses and the remains of the Bellanca, but an elderly resident of one house escaped injury after being dragged out of the burning structure by his caregiver, who was also unhurt. The crash was attributed to spatial disorientation in densely clouded IFR conditions; the pilot had reported a partial instrument panel failure, after which radar data indicated that he was making left turns instead of right turns as directed by air traffic controllers. October 24, 2011: A Cirrus SR22, registered N227TX, attempted to return to Addison Airport shortly after takeoff. After several missed approaches, the aircraft crashed on a railroad track next to Hebron High School, killing one passenger and seriously injuring the pilot and a second passenger. The accident was attributed to "the pilot's failure to adequately preflight the airplane prior to departure, which resulted in a loss of engine power due to fuel exhaustion." June 30, 2019: A Beechcraft King Air 350i, registered N534FF, crashed into a hangar on airport grounds after taking off for a flight to St. Petersburg, Florida, killing all eight passengers and two pilots on board. The hangar was unoccupied at the time of the crash and nobody on the ground was harmed. The aircraft reportedly dropped its left wing on takeoff and immediately veered to the left. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the National Transportation Safety Board investigated. The investigation determined an engine failure was followed by the pilot moving the rudder the wrong way, causing the aircraft to roll over and crash. Motor racing In 1989, 1990, and 1991, Addison Airport hosted the Dallas Grand Prix, consisting of Trans-Am Series, SCCA Formula Super Vee, SCCA Corvette Challenge, and SCCA RaceTruck Challenge races. The Dallas Grand Prix previously took place on a street circuit in Fair Park, but complaints from nearby homeowners prompted organizers to seek a less noise-sensitive venue, and they decided on Addison Airport because the surrounding area was largely industrial in nature. The 1989 event was held on May 12–14 on a temporary circuit that traversed public streets, taxiways, and the south end of the runway. The races benefited Addison hotels and restaurants, but setup and teardown of the circuit and grandstands disrupted airfield operations for weeks, prompting airport businesses and the airport management company to lodge complaints with the town and the FAA in 1990. After the 1991 event, the FAA, the town, the race organizers, and airport managers and tenants agreed that 1992 would be the last year the event would be held at the airport. The agreement became moot when the race organizers, who had lost money on the previous events, cancelled the 1992 event citing financial reasons. References Citations Bibliography External links Addison Airport, official site Cavanaugh Flight Museum Addison Fire Department DFW Instrument Corporation Addison, Texas Airports established in 1954 Airports in Texas Airports in the Dallas–Fort Worth metroplex Buildings and structures in Dallas County, Texas Defunct motorsport venues in the United States Motorsport venues in Texas Transportation in Dallas County, Texas
The Edward T. Breathitt Pennyrile Parkway was the designation for the controlled-access highway from Henderson to Hopkinsville, Kentucky. The parkway originally began at an interchange with the Audubon Parkway and US 41 near the city of Henderson. It travelled south through rolling hills to its former southern terminus at Interstate 24 (I-24) south of Hopkinsville. A section was left unconstructed from US 41 Alternate south to I-24 despite its approval in 1976 from the Parkway Authority for construction. This connection was completed and opened to the public on March 1, 2011. The first of the extension to the US 68 bypass (exit 6) were completed and opened to traffic in September 2008. The construction was then completed to exit 5, with the final section to I-24 opened on March 1, 2011. The parkway's northern terminus was truncated south to the Western Kentucky Parkway in 2013 when Interstate 69 was extended along that section of the highway. The remaining section of the Parkway (from I-69 to I-24) was redesignated as Interstate 169 on May 7, 2017, thereby replacing the last section of the Pennyrile Parkway. Despite the designation changes, it continues to be referred to as the Pennyrile Parkway by most in the area. The next phase of the extension—now completed—encompassed the portion of the parkway between US 41 Alternate and I-24. As of May 2010, the Lover's Lane interchange (exit 5) opened to local traffic via US 68 ramp (exit 5). The final segment, from US 68 to I-24, opened on March 1, 2011. It was one of nine highways that are part of Kentucky's parkway system. The section between the Wendell H. Ford Western Kentucky Parkway near Mortons Gap and the northern terminus in Henderson became part of I-69 with the passage of federal legislation on June 6, 2008. The length of the road carried the unsigned designation Kentucky Route 9004 (EB 9004). The road was named after Edward T. Breathitt, a former Kentucky governor. Originally called the Pennyrile Parkway from its opening in October 1969 at a cost of $69.2 million, it was renamed for Breathitt in 2000. The parkway passed through the cities of Madisonville, Sebree, Mortons Gap, Slaughters, and Earlington. It intersected with the Wendell H. Ford Western Kentucky Parkway near Madisonville. History As a toll road The Pennyrile Parkway, as with all nine parkways, was originally a toll road. By Kentucky state law, toll collection ceases when enough toll has been collected or funds received from other sources, such as a legislative appropriation, to pay off the construction bonds for the parkway. In the case of the Pennyrile, toll booths were removed in 1992 when bonds were paid off ten years ahead of schedule. A section near the middle of the parkway, in the Madisonville area, during much of the parkway's path through Hopkins County, was free from tolls from the road's opening; this section was also signed as US 41. The US 41 designation has since been removed and applied to the former US 41A through Madisonville and other nearby cities; this road was the original US 41 before the parkway opened. This redesignation followed a horrendous blizzard on January 17, 1994, which forced the then-Kentucky governor Brereton C. Jones to close all Interstates and limited access highways in the state. Heavy trucks were forced to take US 41A through downtown Madisonville for a week, snarling local traffic. The parkway between exits 7 and 9 was also toll free. Upgrades and re-designations In 2008, funding was established for the extension of Interstate 69 through Kentucky as a part of a larger nationwide project to extend the Interstate to Laredo, Texas. The KYTC designated portions of the Pennyrile and Western Kentucky Parkways, and all of the Purchase Parkway to be integrated into the Interstate System. Work began almost immediately to upgrade deficiencies in the parkways to full Interstate Standards, such as upgrading bridge railing, converting several interchanges into conventional diamond interchanges, and reconstructing the interchange between the Pennyrile and Western Kentucky parkways to allow for free-flowing traffic on I-69. This work was completed on the Pennyrile stretch, exits were renumbered to match I-69's statewide mileage, and I-69 signs finally went up in 2013. In 2017, the remainder of the parkway was redesignated as Interstate 169. Exit list References External links KentuckyRoads.com — Edward T. Breathitt Pennyrile Parkway Exit Guide for Edward T. Breathitt Pennyrile Parkway 9004 Interstate 69 Kentucky parkway system
Viteri is a Basque surname. Notable people with the surname include: Pedro Viteri y Arana (born 1883), Spanish philanthropist Cynthia Viteri (born 1965), Ecuadorian politician and journalist Efraín Andrade Viteri (1920–1997), Ecuadorian artist Oswaldo Viteri (born 1931), Ecuadorian artist
Robert "Bob" Longfield is an American composer, arranger, conductor and educator, best known for his compositions for Concert Band and String Orchestra. He is currently the Music Director of the Greater Miami Symphonic Band. Early life and education Longfield was born and raised in Grand Rapids, Michigan. He graduated with honors from the University of Michigan where he studied with Jerry Bilik and Paul Boylan, and was a member of the band under William D. Revelli and George R. Cavender where he played saxophone. He received his master's degree in Music Education from the University of Miami where he was a student and personal friend of Alfred Reed. Career For fifteen years, Longfield was the band and orchestra director at Davison High School in Davison, Michigan. Since 1987, he has held a similar position at Miami Palmetto Senior High School in Pinecrest, Florida. Longfield was the recipient of the Teacher of the Year Award by the Michigan School Band and Orchestra Association. In 1996, he received the Mr. Holland Award from the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences and Sciences for outstanding contributions to music education. A member of ASCAP, Longfield has received several commissions and his compositions and arrangements have been played and recorded by bands throughout the United States as well as in Europe and Japan. In honor of Longfield's accomplishments, Miami-Dade County officially recognizes April 5, 2006 as Robert Longfield Day. Selected compositions and arrangements Music for concert band: Hallelujah Chorus (from "The Messiah") Allegretto Cross Current America The Avengers Downton Abbey (arrangement) Purple Twilight Eine Kleine "Pop" Music El Camino Real (arrangement) El Relicario (arrangement) Freedom, Justice, Honor In Glory Triumphant In Quest of Excellence Italian Holiday Menuetto Passacaglia on an Old English Carol Russian Sailor Dance Rapp's Woods Ramble Oblivion (arrangement) Sanctuary Symphony No.2 in C minor Take the Blues Train The Abduction from Seraglio The Honor Roll The Hounds of Spring (arrangement) The "X" Brigade Turkish March When Summer's in the Meadow Where Valor Proudly Sleeps Vortex Fanfare for a Celebration Fanfare for the Common Man (arrangement) Music for string orchestra: American Heritage Suite No. 1 Fugue No. 5 in D Major Intrigue (A Tangoed Web) Over the Waves Plaisir d'amour Prelude in E Minor Rondo in Blue The Skaters' Waltz The Journey of the Magi When Summer's in the Meadow The Godfather (Love Theme) Turning Point Vortex (there is also an orchestra form) Music from Frozen La La Land Medley References American male composers 21st-century American composers Living people People from Davison, Michigan Musicians from Grand Rapids, Michigan University of Miami alumni University of Michigan alumni 21st-century American male musicians Year of birth missing (living people)
Flip4Mac from Telestream, Inc. was a digital media software for the macOS operating system. It was known for being the only QuickTime component for macOS to support Windows Media Video, and was distributed by Microsoft as a substitute after they discontinued their media player for Macintosh computers. Features Telestream previously offered a free standalone player also known as Flip Player while charging for their Pro and Studio features until the release of v3.3 on May 1, 2014, when they began charging for Flip4Mac Player (plug-in and standalone player combined). There are four versions of Flip4Mac Player: Flip4Mac Player ($9.99) Play Windows Media files (.wma and .wmv) directly in QuickTime applications and view Windows Media content on the Internet using a web browser Flip4Mac Player Pro ($29) Adds the ability to import WMV and WMA files for editing and conversion to QuickTime formats or iOS devices Flip4Mac Studio ($49) Includes all the features of Player Pro, and adds the ability to create standard definition (up to 768 x 576) WMV files using preset templates and custom encoding profiles Flip4Mac Studio Pro HD ($179) Includes all the features of Studio, and adds two-pass HD (up to 1920 x 1080), VBR encoding and pro audio features Technical specifications Below is the following technical specifications for Flip4Mac Player: Codec support NOTE: Exporting WMV9 Advanced and WMA Professional and Lossless is supported only by Flip4Mac Studio Pro HD Network stream protocols Frame sizes available for export System requirements In order to run Flip4Mac, you need to meet the following specifications: Intel-based Mac Mac OS X Snow Leopard or later NOTE: Please note if running on Snow Leopard, you need to update to 10.6.8 via Apple Software Update. Windows Media Components for QuickTime Windows Media Components for QuickTime allow free transparent playback of the most common Windows Media Video and Windows Media Audio formats on macOS inside QuickTime applications and web browsers. On January 12, 2006, Microsoft discontinued the Macintosh version of Windows Media Player and began distributing Flip4Mac Player for free until May 1, 2014, when Telestream began charging for Flip4Mac Player. Microsoft's website refers the product as Windows Media Components for QuickTime while Telestream just refers to Flip4Mac. Windows Media Advanced Stream Redirector Advanced Stream Redirector (ASX) file format is a type of Extensible Markup Language (XML) metafile designed to store a playlist of Windows Media files for a multimedia presentation. Flip4Mac currently supports the following MIME types: {| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center;" |- | video/x-ms-wmv | audio/x-ms-wma |- | video/x-ms-wm | video/x-ms-asf |- | video/x-ms-wvx | video/x-ms-wmx |- | audio/x-ms-wax | video/x-ms-asx |- |} Advanced Systems Format Advanced Systems Format (ASF) is Microsoft's proprietary digital audio/digital video container format, especially meant for streaming media. Windows Media Audio Windows Media Audio (WMA) is an audio data compression technology developed by Microsoft. The name can be used to refer to its audio file format or its audio codecs. Windows Media Digital Rights Management Flip4Mac is unable to play content that has been protected using digital rights management. Windows Media Video Windows Media Video (WMV) is a video data compression technology developed by Microsoft. Version history Flip4Mac 2.1 was released in July 2006 with support for Intel-based Macs. Flip4Mac 3.0 was released in September 2012 with support for 64-bit improvements as well as Gatekeeper. It also includes Flip Player, a new multi-format video player with the ability to play the most common Windows Media formats. Flip4Mac 3.1 was released in February 2013 with support for the third generation MacBook Pros, MacBooks (relaunched version of the original MacBook line), and iMacs with Retina display. It also includes the ability to export videos to iTunes from Flip Player. Flip4Mac 3.2 was released in May 2013 with support for dramatically improved load time for ASF (.wmv, .wma, .wm, .wmp, .asf, etc.) file formats. Flip4Mac 3.3 was released in May 2014 with several minor 3.3.X updates with 3.3.7 being the latest update. Several updates include re-supporting Mac OS X Snow Leopard (after the support being removed in 3.0), and natively supporting OS X Yosemite (10.10) and OS X El Capitan (10.11). The software is no longer supported higher than OS X El Capitan (10.11). As a replacement Telestream advises users to try their Switch4Player software. See also Perian References Further reading Flip4Mac has been mentioned in the following books: Switching to the Mac: The Missing Manual, OS X Yosemite Edition () External links – official site MacOS multimedia software MacOS media players
Off the Record is the fifth studio album by the English glam rock band Sweet. It was recorded at Audio International Studios in London between October 1976 and January 1977. The band produced with assistance from engineers Louis Austin and Nick Ryan. Track listing All songs written and composed by Brian Connolly, Steve Priest, Andy Scott and Mick Tucker. European release Side one "Fever of Love" - 4:03 "Lost Angels" - 4:06 "Midnight to Daylight" - 3:34 "Windy City" - 7:30 Side two "Live for Today" - 3:19 "She Gimme Lovin'" - 4:08 "Laura Lee" - 4:18 "Hard Times" - 4:01 "Funk It Up" - 3:34 Bonus tracks on 1990 reissue "A Distinct Lack of Ancient" (B-side of 'Fever Of Love') - 4:07 "Stairway to the Stars" - 3:05 "Why Don't You Do It to Me" (B-side of 'Stairway To The Stars') - 3:11 Bonus tracks on 1999 reissue "A Distinct Lack of Ancient" - 4:09 "Why Don't You Do It to Me" - 3:14 Bonus tracks on 2005 reissue "A Distinct Lack of Ancient" - 4:07 "Funk It Up" (disco mix - US B-side of 'Funk It Up') - 5:27 "Stairway to the Stars" - 3:03 "Why Don't You Do It to Me" - 3:13 "Midnight to Daylight" (extended version) - 4:09 "Lost Angels" (demo version) - 3:46 "She Gimme Lovin'" (alternative version - previously unreleased) - 4:06 "Hard Times" (alternative version - previously unreleased) - 4:40 US release (LP only) Side one "Fever of Love" (different intro) - 3:59 "Lost Angels" - 4:02 "Midnight to Daylight" - 3:30 "Laura Lee" - 4:16 "Windy City" - 7:27 Side two "Stairway to the Stars" (additional track) - 3:05 "Live for Today" (clean version) - 3:22 "Funk It Up (David's Song)" (same as RCA version) - 3:33 "Hard Times" - 4:00 "She Gimme Lovin'" - 4:04 Unlike the RCA issue, the Capitol cover featured the album title. Singles "Stairway to the Stars" was withheld from the RCA album release and later issued as a single as a follow-up to "Lost Angels" and "Fever of Love". All three singles proved to be commercial flops (except some countries like Sweden, Germany, Austria, South Africa, and Denmark, where all or some broke the top 10 and 20). Songs covered Raul Sepper recorded a cover of "Funk It Up" in Estonian, titled "Sein On Ees", in 1979. The German power metal act Gamma Ray covered "Lost Angels" on their 2013 Master of Confusion EP. Personnel Sweet Brian Connolly – lead vocals Steve Priest – bass guitar, harmonica, lead and backing vocals Andy Scott – guitar, keyboards, synthesizers, backing vocals Mick Tucker – drums, percussion, backing vocals References The Sweet albums 1977 albums RCA Records albums
Damian Lee is a Canadian film director, writer, and producer responsible as well as notable for such films as Abraxas, Guardian of the Universe, No Exit and Ski School. He started his own production company, Rose & Ruby Productions, in the 1980s. Film References External links Canadian film directors Canadian film production company founders Canadian male screenwriters Living people 1950 births 20th-century Canadian screenwriters 20th-century Canadian male writers
Princess Shi (; personal name unknown), who might have taken the title Empress Shi () at one point, was the wife of Lü Guang (Emperor Yiwu), the founder of the Di-led Later Liang dynasty of China. Very little is known about her. What is known is that when Lü Guang, who was then a Former Qin general, was sent by the Former Qin emperor Fu Jiān in 383 on a mission to subdue the Xiyu (西域, modern Xinjiang and former Soviet Central Asia) kingdoms, she did not accompany her husband but remained in the Former Qin capital Chang'an with his son Lü Shao, who was probably her son as well. When Chang'an fell to Western Yan forces in 385, they fled to the semi-independent state Chouchi, and after Lü Guang established Later Liang after returning from his Xiyu mission and seizing Liang Province (涼州, modern central and western Gansu), they arrived in his capital Guzang (姑臧, in modern Wuwei, Gansu) in 389. Lü Guang, who then carried the title Prince of Sanhe, created her his princess and created Lü Shao heir apparent. By the time he claimed the imperial title "Heavenly Prince" (Tian Wang) in 396 and created Lü Shao crown prince, she was not mentioned, implying that she might have died by that point, and there was no further reference to her in history. If she had in fact survived to 396, she would have likely been created empress. The table below assumes that she survived to 400 when Lü Guang died, but that was in fact not likely. References |- style="text-align: center;" |- style="text-align: center;" |- |- |- Later Liang (Sixteen Kingdoms) empresses 4th-century deaths Year of birth unknown
Olympian spirits (or Olympic spirits, Olympick spirits) refers to seven (or sometimes fourteen) spirits mentioned in several Renaissance and post-Renaissance books of ritual magic/ceremonial magic, such as the Arbatel de magia veterum, The Secret Grimoire of Turiel and The Complete Book of Magic Science. The Arbatel of Magick says of the Olympian spirits: "They are called Olympick spirits, which do inhabit in the firmament, and in the stars of the firmament: and the office of these spirits is to declare Destinies, and to administer fatal Charms, so far forth as God pleaseth to permit them." In this magic system, the universe is divided into 196 provinces (a number which in numerology adds up to 7: 1+9+6=16; 1+6=7) with each of the seven Olympian spirits ruling a set number of provinces. Aratron rules the most provinces (49), while each succeeding Olympian rules seven fewer than the former, down to Phul who rules seven provinces. Each of the Olympic spirits rules alternately for 490 years. Each Olympian spirit is also associated with one of the seven luminaries which figure in ancient and medieval Western magic. The seven Olympian spirits Aratron (or Arathron), "the alchemist who commanded seventeen million six hundred and forty thousand spirits". He rules 49 provinces. His planet is Saturn. Bethor, "who commanded twenty-nine thousand legions of spirits". He rules 42 provinces. His planet is Jupiter. Phaleg (or Phalec, Pharos), "the War-Lord". His planet is Mars. He rules 35 provinces. Och, "the alchemist, physician, and magician". He rules 28 provinces. His "planet" is the Sun. Hagith, "transmuter of metals, and commander of four thousand legions of spirits". He rules 21 provinces. His planet is Venus. Ophiel, "who commanded one hundred thousand legions of spirits". He rules 14 provinces. His planet is Mercury. Phul, "lord of the powers of the moon and supreme lord of the waters". He rules 7 provinces. His "planet" is the Moon. The seven archangels and the seven Olympian spirits In ritual magic, the seven Olympian spirits are not confused with the seven traditional archangels, which usually are Michael (usually the Sun), Anael (Venus), Raphael (usually Mercury), Gabriel (the Moon), Cassiel (Saturn), Samael (Mars) and Zadkiel (Jupiter), or a variation thereof. The seven Olympian spirits are often evoked in conjunction with the seven classic archangels, and magic seals often associate one of the classic seven with one of the Olympian spirits. For example, a magic seal from Frederick Hockley's The Complete Book of Magic Science shows the form of a seal which binds a spirit of Jupiter, Pabiel, to the magician: Pabiel's name appears in a band stretched between two circles: the circle on the left bearing the name and sigil of Bethor, the circle on the right bearing the name and sigil of Sachiel (equivalent to Zadkiel). See also Archangel Hierarchy of angels Twelve Olympians Seven archangels References External links Davidson, Gustav, A Dictionary of Angels, Including the Fallen Angels. 1967. Free Press, Hall, Manly Palmer, The Secret Teachings of All Ages, 1928; Diamond Jubilee Edition, 1988. Pgs. 103-104. Agrippa von Nettesheim, Heinrich Cornelius, 1486?-1535., Arbatel De magia veterum (Arbatel: Of the Magic of the Ancients), digital edition. Joseph H. Peterson.
The Thurniaceae are a family of flowering plants composed of two genera with four species. The botanical name has been recognized by most taxonomists. The APG II system, of 2003, also recognizes such a family, and assigns it to the order Poales in the clade commelinids, in the monocots. The family consists of two genera, totalling only a few species, perennial plants of wet habitats in South America and South Africa. This represents a slight change from the APG system, 1998, which treated the two genera as each constituting their own family (Prioniaceae and Thurniaceae), both placed in the order Poales. The Cronquist system of 1981 also recognized such a family and placed it in the order Juncales in the subclass Commelinidae in class Liliopsida in division Magnoliophyta. The Wettstein system, last updated in 1935, placed the family in order Liliiflorae. References Poales families Taxa named by Adolf Engler
The Westfield Heritage Village is a heritage centre located just west of Rockton, Ontario, Canada. The village contains over 30 historic buildings on a site. It is operated by the Hamilton Conservation Authority. Brief history In 1961, the Westfield Pioneer Village Association was established by two Brantford high school teachers, D. Glenn Kilmer and Golden Macdonnell, who purchased land near Rockton, Ontario, using their own money. Doreen Kilmer, a teacher and wife of Glenn Kilmer wasn't part of the Association. However, she participated equally in the development and management of Westfield. It acquired the original of land. Their goal was to save heritage buildings that were in danger of being destroyed and also to create a hands-on educational facility to teach pioneer life. Glenn Kilmer's father had been a builder and owner of Kilmer Lumber Company in Aylmer Ontario (subsequently sold to Beaver Lumber Co). Golden Macdonnell was a science teacher who had a keen interest in the history of Ontario. Both men were able to reconstruct the donated buildings which arrived at Westfield. Golden built the forges from fieldstone on the site and Doreen managed the General Store. The original name of the facility was the Westfield Pioneer Village. The Village unofficially opened in June 1963 and officially opened in 1964. Westfield Village was open to the public on weekends in June, September and October and during the summer holidays, seven days a week from 10:00 a.m to 5:00 pm. It provided jobs for students as well as ladies in the area who operated school tours. There were 12 buildings open at this time staffed by students. In May 1968 the former Wentworth County purchased the village for CAD $32,700. Ownership transferred to the Wentworth County on November 1, 1968. The name was changed to Wentworth Heritage Village in 1981 because much of the collection was not of the pioneer era. The village ceased operation on September 3, 1984 due to a financial crisis. Over the next few years various ideas were discuss ranging from moving the facility to creating a theme park. Starting in 1985, several scenes from the Anne of Green Gables movie series were shot in the village. Including buildings such as the saw mill, church, train station and general store. A five-year redevelopment began in 1990. The goal was to create a "special events theme centre" and the facility was renamed the Westfield Heritage Centre. In 2010 the village received a substantial grant from the TD (Toronto Dominion) bank to plant several groves of fruit trees and construct two beehives. As of May 2010 one was in operation and awaiting the arrival of more bees to enlarge the colony. A second beehive is being planned. The aim of the apiary program is to illustrate the importance of the European honey bee (Apius Mellifera ) to the settlers and to raise awareness for Colony Collapse Disorder (CCD) . Affiliations The Museum is affiliated with: CMA, CHIN, and Virtual Museum of Canada. See also List of tourist attractions in Hamilton, Ontario References External links Westfield homepage Cultural Landmarks of Hamilton-Wentworth: Westfield Heritage Centre Avonlea Treasures - fansite with information on the filming of Anne of Green Gables at Westfield. Museums in Hamilton, Ontario Open-air museums in Canada History museums in Ontario
Beaumont Municipal Airport is seven miles west of downtown Beaumont, in Jefferson County, Texas. The National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems for 2017–2021 categorized it as a general aviation facility. Airlines at Beaumont operate from Jack Brooks Regional Airport (BPT) south of the city. Facilities The airport covers 276 acres (112 ha) at an elevation of 32 feet (10 m). It has one runway: 13/31 is 4,001 by 75 feet (1,220 x 23 m) asphalt. In the year ending April 4, 2023, the airport had 15,320 aircraft operations, average 42 per day: 95% general aviation,3% military, and 2% air taxi. At that time, 46 aircraft were based at the airport: 38 single-engine, 5 multi-engine, 1 jet and 2 helicopter. History The airport opened in 1937; construction was a Works Project Administration project. The airport was used during World War II by the Army Air Corps for antisubmarine patrols. In 1940, Eastern Air Lines stopped their one way daily routes between Beaumont and Houston. No regularly scheduled flights have taken place since. Improvements A $230,000 building replaced the original terminal building in the late 1970s. Other improvements included paved runways, taxiway, parking apron and lighting costing $593,000. Runway and taxiways were improved in 2009; partial financing was from a $2.9 million grant from the Texas Department of Transportation. In 2014 facilities were completely renovated. Upcoming improvements include a 12,500 sq ft hangar, a 2,500 sq ft office building, removal of a two unit T-Hangar replaced by an eight unit T-Hangar. References External links Aerial image as of February 1989 from USGS The National Map Airports in Texas Transportation in Jefferson County, Texas Buildings and structures in Beaumont, Texas
Yves Rocher is a French skin care, cosmetics and perfume company, founded in 1965 by French entrepreneur Yves Rocher in La Gacilly. The company is present with over 3,000 stores, about half of them franchised, in 88 countries on five continents and employs 13,500 personnel. The company's headquarters is located in Rennes, Brittany, France. It maintains a botanical garden, the Jardin botanique Yves Rocher de La Gacilly, which is open to the public without charge at its factory site in La Gacilly. For the company's national and international experience in sustainable development and eco-friendly products, the Environment Possibility Award conferred the "Environmental Heroes of the Year" to Yves Rocher in 2020. Rocher Group, formerly Yves Rocher Group, had a turnover of 2.75 billion euros in 2019. The group also includes the brands Daniel Jouvance, Dr Pierre Ricaud, Isabel Derroisné, Petit Bateau, Kiotis, Stanhome and Galérie Noémie. History Laboratoires de Biologie Végétale Yves Rocher was established in 1965 to incorporate the local business focused on selling hemorrhoid salve and cosmetics based on traditional recipes through mail orders Yves Rocher ran since 1956. As the mayor of his hometown La Gacilly, France since the late 1950s, Rocher hoped that the establishment of a local business would help create jobs and stop people from fleeing the village in search of work. In 1959 the company opened its botanical garden and a laboratory to experiment with new recipes along with searching for potential ingredients worldwide. In 1965 the company built its first factory and an expanded botanical garden with a modern laboratory named Le Centre d'Etudes et de Recherche en Cosmetologie (Center for the Study and Research of Beauty Care). The same year the company produced its first Green Book of Beauty catalog. Focused on transforming botanical substances into cosmetic ingredients, Rocher had anticipated the boom of interest in natural cosmetics and ecology in general. In 1969 Yves Rocher launched a new production facility in La Gacilly, and in 1970 the first retail store opened in Paris. The company rapidly expanded its retail network through its stores and selling franchises, and expanded its mail order and retail business to the rest of Europe. By the early 1970s, the company sales had topped Fr 80 million. Yves Rocher avoided public listing and found a strategic partner to fund future growth. In 1973 the 60% share in the company was sold to Elf Aquitaine subsidiary Sanofi, yet Rocher himself retained 57% of the company's voting rights. By 1981 the company reached Fr 1 billion in sales with mail orders accounting for 70%, and retail along with in-home party sales providing the rest. In 1982 the company's new Center for Applied Research claimed to develop a technique to extract the DNA of certain plants and re-engineer them to produce heightened benefits. The A.D.N Revitalizing Resource line of skincare products based on that research boosted the company sales worldwide up to Fr 2.6 billion by 1984. In 2023 Yves Rocher took the decision to close all physical stores in Germany, Austria and Switzerland, having already closed stores in the Netherlands. Foundation The Yves Rocher Foundation was founded in 2016 by Yves Rocher under the aegis of the institute of France since 2001. Controversy Yves Rocher Vostok, the company's East European subsidiary, sued Russian opposition politician Alexei Navalny and his brother for fraud and money laundering. New Gazette accused Bruno Leproux, managing director of Yves Rocher Vostok, of assisting the Russian government's campaign against Alexei Navalny. Since August 2014 the "One Question for Yves Rocher" movement has been expanding in Europe in order to get the Yves Rocher corporation to take a definitive position on the case against Navalny. On 30 December 2014, Alexei Navalny's brother Oleg was sentenced to 3 years of forced labor, and Alexei Navalny himself to a suspended sentence of 3 years. On 17 October 2017, European Court of Human Rights decided that the case of fraud against Alexei and Oleg Navalny on the complaint of the company "Yves Rocher" was considered in Russia with a violation of the right to a fair trial. The court concluded that the verdict was arbitrary and unreasonable. According to the decision of the ECHR, Russia must pay the brothers Navalny 76 thousand euros. The ECHR refused to consider the issue of political motivation. At the same time, three judges of the ECHR Dmitry Dedov, Helen Keller and Georgios Sergidez expressed the opinion that it was necessary to consider a possible political background of the case. Despite the decision of the ECHR on 25 April 2018, the Presidium of the Supreme Court of Russia refused to revoke the verdict to the Navalny brothers in the case of Yves Rocher and decided to resume the case to consider new circumstances. On February 2, 2021, the court changed Navalny's probation to a real one and sent him to a colony for 2 years 8 months (taking into account the period spent by the politician under house arrest). After the verdict, the oppositionist was declared a political prisoner. Yves Rocher refused to support Navalny in any way, which provoked criticism The winner of the Nobel Peace Prize for 2021, Dmitry Muratov, at the ceremony of presenting this award, said the following: “Opposition politician Alexei Navalny is being kept in the camp on a false denunciation by the Russian director of the largest perfume company from France. The director wrote a statement, but he was not summoned to court and did not recognize himself as a victim ... But Navalny is in prison. The perfume company itself chose to step aside, hoping that the smell of this case would not harm the scent of its products. References External links Groupe Rocher official website Yves Rocher Foundation Cosmetics companies of France Companies based in Brittany French brands Chemical companies established in 1959 Manufacturing companies established in 1959 Retail companies established in 1959 1959 establishments in France
Nowhere to Run is a 1993 American action film directed by Robert Harmon. The film stars Jean-Claude Van Damme, Rosanna Arquette, Kieran Culkin, Ted Levine, and Joss Ackland. Nowhere to Run was released in the United States on January 15, 1993, by Columbia Pictures. The film was the second collaboration between Van Damme and producer Craig Baumgarten, after Universal Soldier (1992). Plot A prison bus flips on the road when it's cut off by a car driven by Billy, who frees prisoner and partner-in-crime Sam Gillen. They escape in the car but Billy is fatally shot by a guard. Sam buys some food from a roadside store and camps near a pond. He finds the money from their latest heist in the car trunk and listens to a tape recording left by Billy before pushing the car into the pond. That night, Sam sneaks up to a nearby house and sees a woman and her two children inside. He breaks in but is nearly discovered by one of the kids; he takes a salt shaker and leaves. The next night he breaks in again to return it; the boy named Mike (nicknamed "Mookie") finds Sam's campsite. Nearby demolition from real estate development disturbs Clydie Anderson, the owner of the home. Corrupt developer Franklin Hale seeks to drive her off the land with the help of his lackey, Mr. Dunston, and the local sheriff, Lonnie Poole, who is dating her. One night, goons attack Clydie and her children, but Sam arrives and fights them off. He claims he is camping and hunting on her land, and Clydie insinuates that he is not welcome, but later offers him shelter in her barn out of gratitude. Sam also purchases her dead husband's old Triumph Bonneville motorcycle and repairs it with Mookie's help. Later Sam thwarts an attempt by Hale to ruin Clydie's farmland by coating it with oil. A town council meeting gets heated when another resident, Tom, refuses to sell his land to Hale. That night, his goons burn down Tom's barn. Mookie (who discovers the fire) awakens Sam; Sam saves Tom and puts out the fire with their water tower before their fuel tanks can ignite, further angering Hale. Noticing that Clydie is taking a liking to Sam, Lonnie beats him and demands he leave. While tending his wounds, Clydie and Sam have sex. Lonnie continues to grow suspicious of Sam and Clydie's relationship; he finds out Sam is a fugitive and informs Clydie. Sam tells her that he and Billy robbed a bank, but Billy killed a guard defending him. He got caught, while his friend escaped. Clydie tells him to leave, so Sam returns to his campsite. Hale enlists the sheriff's department to hunt him down, so he leads them on a motorcycle chase and ultimately escapes, but returns to Clydie. Running out of time and growing desperate, Hale and Dunston go to Clydie's house with guns and force her to sign over the land. Sam arrives just in time to stop them from burning down the house and kills Dunston with a revolver . The police arrive and arrest Hale (who is holding Clydie at gunpoint). Sam allows Lonnie to arrest him, having decided to stop running but promises to return to Clydie and the kids, whom he loves. Cast Jean-Claude Van Damme as Sam Gillen Rosanna Arquette as Clydie Anderson Kieran Culkin as Mike 'Mookie' Anderson Tiffany Taubman as Bree Anderson Joss Ackland as Franklin Hale Ted Levine as Mr. Dunston Edward Blatchford as Sheriff Lonnie Poole Anthony Starke as Billy James Greene as Country Store Clerk John Finn as Cop in chase John Kerry as big thug John Tony Epper as fire thug Al Production Development and writing Joe Eszterhas wrote the original script with director Richard Marquand, with whom he had made two films. He had originally written the script as more of a serious drama film with action elements, however, according to Eszterhas "The script was taken and destroyed many years later by Jean-Claude Van Damme as Nowhere to Run," said Eszterhas. "It lost its sensitivity, it lost everything. I don't like to remember that movie." The film was the first in a three picture deal between Van Damme and Columbia Pictures. His fee was $3.5 million. Columbia said the film is ”true to his audience and goes beyond his audience." Van Damme later said, "the script was... not that good. The writer told me he was going to fix everything. I was in his house, he shook my hand, he promised me, but he didn't fix it." Reception Box office Nowhere to Run opened January 15, 1993, in 1,745 theaters. In its opening weekend, the film made $8,203,255, at #4 behind Aladdin's tenth weekend, A Few Good Men's sixth, and Alive's first weekend. The film finally grossed $22,189,039 in the United States and Canada. The film performed better internationally, grossing $41.9 million in other territories for a worldwide gross of $64 million. Critical response The film received mostly mixed reviews from critics. Rotten Tomatoes reports that 36% of 25 surveyed critics gave the film a positive review; the average rating is 4.2/10. Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "B+" on an A+ to F scale. Despite that, the film has a cult following with most fans declaring it as "one of Van Damme's better films". References External links 1993 films 1993 action films 1993 action thriller films 1993 crime films 1993 crime drama films 1993 crime thriller films 1993 drama films 1993 action drama films 1990s American films 1990s English-language films American action films American action drama films American action thriller films American crime drama films American crime thriller films Films set in Los Angeles Columbia Pictures films Films directed by Robert Harmon Films scored by Mark Isham Films with screenplays by Joe Eszterhas
hit104.7 (call sign: 2ROC) is a commercial FM radio station broadcasting in Canberra, Australian Capital Territory, Australia, on a frequency of 104.7 MHz, and is part of Southern Cross Austereo's Hit Network. hit104.7 and sister station MIX 106.3 broadcast from Crace in the Australian Capital Territory. History In 1987, Canberra radio station 2CA was awarded the licence to operate a supplementary FM service. The station was assigned the call-sign 2ROC and on-air branding FM104 (later changed to FM104.7). It commenced broadcasting on 27 February 1988 at 8 am on the frequency 104.7 MHz FM. FM104, along with rival KIX106, were the first new commercial FM radio stations to be licensed in Australia in eight years and were the first supplementary FM licences in Australia. Just a day before the station's launch, on Friday 26 February 1988, then-owner of 2CA, John Fairfax Ltd announced it had sold Macquarie Radio Network to a Queensland-based consortium, Sonance Ltd for an undisclosed sum believed to be in the region of $100 million. By April 1988, 2CA and FM104.7 were sold to Austereo from Sonance Ltd for $15.25 million. In June the results of the first survey since the introduction of the new FM stations gave FM104.7 9.5% of the radio audience with its rock music format, behind its sister station 2CA, with 11.6% of the radio audience with its news-talk format. Station manager of Macquarie Canberra, Greg St John, said the recent sale to Austereo had left the stations in 'financial limbo' and unable to package their product during the ratings period earlier in the year. In the mid-1990s, due to AM radio's dwindling audience and the increasing popularity of the music based FM stations Austereo - owner of 104.7 & 2CA and ARN - owner of Mix 106.3 & 2CC, merged to form a joint venture ownership of both FM stations - Canberra FM Pty Ltd. The AM stations were sold off, moved to other premises and are currently owned by Capital Radio Network and Grant Broadcasters. In December 2015, Southern Cross Austereo and Australian Radio Network announced that FM104.7 would rebrand to hit104.7 in 2016. On Monday 18 January 2016, hit104.7 launched with a new breakfast show, Ryan & Tanya, as the station joined the Hit Network. As well as a new name and branding it gives the station even greater access to the network's on-air, online and social content. Since 4 December 2017, the hit104.7 breakfast show has been hosted by Ned & Josh, after Ryan & Tanya left the station and Canberra in November 2017. On 14 April 2021, it was revealed that the station lost to Mix 106.3 in the Canberra radio ratings. On 30 October 2023, Ned & Josh left hit104.7. References External links Radio stations in Canberra Radio stations established in 1988 Contemporary hit radio stations in Australia Southern Cross Media Group Australian Radio Network
The Muras are an indigenous people who live in the central and eastern parts of Amazonas, Brazil, along the Amazon river from the Madeira to the Purus. They played an important part in Brazilian history during colonial times and were known for their quiet determination and subsequent resistance to the encroaching Portuguese culture. Formerly a powerful people, they were defeated by their neighbors, the Munduruku, in 1788. Of the original diversity of Muran languages, only Pirahã survives today. Historical encounter with the Portuguese According to Adélia Engrácia de Oliveira in Autos da devassa contra os índios Mura do Rio Madeira e nações do Rio Tocantins (1738–1739) (CEDEAM, 1986:1): "It is known that they, who used their canoes as homes, nomadic indians ("Índios de Corso"), controlled a wide area of land from the border of Peru to River Trombetas, that they stood out for their great effort to repel the encroaching of the Portuguese, that they were valiant and fearless warriors, using special attack tactics, and that their incursions and raids frightened 18th century Amazonas." Territory There are about 15,713 Mura people in Brazil. About 587 of them occupy the Cunhã-Sapucaia Indigenous Territory along the Igapó-Açu River, which runs through the territory from west to east. The lower part of the Matupiri River enters the territory, where it flows into the Igapó-Açu River. The Matupi provides the main way to access the Matupiri State Park. In an unusual arrangement, the Mura people have an "indigenous special use zone" in the state park that allows them to continue to fish and extract forest products, as they have for many generations. References Sources Indigenous peoples in Brazil Indigenous peoples of the Amazon
Perfect Promise, sired by Caesour out of Meretricious is a South African thoroughbred race mare who raced in Australia. On 11 February 2006, she claimed her first Australian Group One victory by winning the C F Orr Stakes at Caulfield Racecourse, Melbourne. She was bred by Heinrich Winterbach at Varsfontein Stud in the Western Cape, and sold to and raced by Peter Cowley during her South African career. Perfect Promise won the Cape Fillies Guineas Gr 1, the Diana Stakes Gr 3 and was 2nd in the Fancourt Stakes Gr 1. Her younger full sister was Irridescene who raced for Team Valour and won the Queen Elizabeth II Cup Gr1 in Hong Kong. External links Perfect Promise's racing record 1999 racehorse births Thoroughbred family 3-i Racehorses bred in South Africa Racehorses trained in South Africa Racehorses trained in Australia
Gokuldham is a densely populated neighborhood in Mumbai, India, close to Goregaon railway station. It has over a hundred residential buildings from 5 to 45 floors high and forthcoming constructions are promised to be higher. There are several schools in Gokuldham, Yashodham High School & Jr College, St Xavier's High School, Oberoi International School, Gokuldham High School, Lakshdham High School and Ryan International School. Also, Gokuldham has its own shopping malls & complexes (Oberoi Mall, Shagun Mall, Gagan Shopping Arcade). The local population congregates in and around the large temple - Gokuldham Temple - located near the entrance. There are many grounds and maidans here too. In popular culture Fictional setting of Gokuldham society in Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah sitcom is purportedly located in Goregaon. References Neighbourhoods in Mumbai
Erika Helga Ruth Böhm-Vitense (June 3, 1923 – January 21, 2017) was a German-born American astrophysicist known for her work on Cepheid variables and convection in stellar atmospheres. Early life Böhm-Vitense was born Erika Helga Ruth Vitense on 3 June 1923 in Kurau, Germany. She was the second of three girls. Her parents, Wilma and Hans Vitense were both teachers. She, along with her sisters, was raised in Lübeck, Germany. Education Erika started her undergraduate studies at University of Tübingen in 1943. However, she moved to Kiel University in 1945 in favor of a stronger astronomy department than at her first institution. She completed her undergraduate degree in 1948. She remained at Kiel for her graduate studies, working with Albrecht Unsöld. Erika successfully defended her thesis Continuous absorption coefficients as a function of pressure and temperature in the Sun in 1951 and received her doctorate degree. Work and research efforts After receiving her Ph.D., Erika remained at Kiel as a Research Associate. Two years after receiving her Ph.D., she published Die Wasserstoffkonvektionszone der Sonne. Mit 11 Textabbildungen which translates to The hydrogen convection zone of the Sun. With 11 text illustrations. This is one of her most famous works as it has been cited 287 times since its publication. After getting married in 1954, she and her husband visited Lick Observatory and University of California, Berkeley for one year. Upon their return to Kiel, her husband, who was also an astrophysicist, was given a tenure track position, but she was not. In 1968, they both moved to the University of Washington where she started as Senior Research Associate. She was awarded a full-time professor position in 1971, and became a professor emeritus later on. During her time at the University of Washington, she made fundamental contributions to the understanding of stellar binaries, stellar temperatures, chromospheric activity, rotation, and convection. She also made substantial contributions to the fundamentals of Mixing Length Theory. She continued this work through the rest of her career. Around 1978, Erika realized that the ultraviolet band of light was the best way to make observations of stellar chromospheres. The International Ultraviolet Explorer (IUE) launched in January 1978, and she was able to use this data to further her work. Notable works Erika has over 300 academic papers on the Harvard Astrophysics Data System, of which she is the first author on more than two-thirds of these publications. Die Wasserstoffkonvektionszone der Sonne. Mit 11 Textabbildungen (Zeitschrift für Astrophysik: 1953) Introduction to Stellar Astrophysics (Cambridge University Press: 1989) Personal life Erika met her husband, Karl-Heinz Böhm at Kiel, where he was also in astrophysics. They married in 1953 and had four children: Hans, Manfred, Helga, and Eva. Death Erika died on 21 January 2017 in Seattle, Washington. Honors and awards Best thesis prize at Kiel University in 1951. Annie Jump Cannon Prize from the American Astronomical Society in 1965. Elected as Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Karl Schwarzschild Medal from the Astronomische Gesellschaft in 2003 References External links Karl Schwarzschild Medal laudation UWA obituary AAS obituary IAU affiliations 1923 births 2017 deaths American women astronomers German astrophysicists Recipients of the Annie J. Cannon Award in Astronomy University of Washington faculty Emigrants from West Germany to the United States People from Ostholstein
Mudanya (also: Mudania, , ta Moudaniá [Pl.]) (the site of ancient Apamea Myrlea) is a municipality and district of Bursa Province, Turkey. Its area is 369 km2, and its population is 108,011 (2022). It is located on the Gulf of Gemlik, part of the southern coast of the Sea of Marmara. Between 1875 and 1948, it was connected with Bursa by the Mudanya–Bursa railway. Mudanya has only an open anchorage usable in calm weather. The town produces olive oil and there is a pier used by local fishing and cargo boats. History According to the Ottoman General Census of 1881/82-1893, the kaza of Mudanya of Hüdavendigâr vilayet had a total population of 16,683, consisting of 11,792 Greeks and 4,891 Muslims. A port city, it also had a railway connection to Bursa which was completed in 1875. The railway had a pier at the seaport of Mudanya for exporting. Istanbul was often the recipient of exported goods from Mudanya. Silk was a popular export. During the Turkish War of Independence, Mudanya was bombarded by the Royal Navy and thus partially burned by the British Fleet during the Greek Summer Offensive of 1920. Sergeant Şükrü from Mudanya and 9 of his brothers-in-arms were killed during the Allied bombardment and subsequent landing by the Greek troops and the British Royal Marines. Liberation of Mudanya Mudanya and its environs were liberated by the Turkish Kocaeli Army Corps under the Command of Halit (Karsıalan) Paşa on the 12th of September 1922. The Greek 11th Infantry Division (Manisa Division) and the 45th &17th Infantry regiments along with their commanders and with Major-General Nikolaos Kladas were captured. The town was the signing place of the Armistice of Mudanya between Turkey, Italy, France and Britain on October 11, 1922, following the Turkish War of Independence. After the Treaty of Lausanne and the Greco-Turkish population exchange agreement, the Greeks of the town were transferred into mainland Greece, establishing a settlement to which they gave the name of their previous town, Nea Moudania (New Moudania, located on the Chalkidiki peninsula, in the Macedonia region of Greece). In return, a number of Cretan Turks were settled in Mudanya. Composition There are 47 neighbourhoods in Mudanya District: Akköy Altıntaş Aydınpınar Bademli Balabancık Çağrışan Çamlık Çayönü Çekrice Çepni Çınarlı Dedeköy Dereköy Eğerce Emirleryenicesi Esence Evciler Göynüklü Güzelyalı Burgaz Güzelyalı Eğitim Güzelyalı Siteler Güzelyalı Yalı Halitpaşa Hançerli Hasanbey Hasköy İpekyayla Işıklı Kaymakoba Küçükyenice Kumyaka Mesudiye Mirzaoba Mürsel Mütareke Ömerbey Orhaniye Söğütpınar Şükrüçavuş Tirilye Ülkü Yalıçiftlik Yaman Yaylacık Yenimahalle Yörükali Yörükyenicesi Traditional architecture in Mudanya See also Nea Moudania References External links District governor's official website District municipality's official website Cities in Turkey Populated places in Bursa Province Populated coastal places in Turkey Metropolitan district municipalities in Turkey Districts of Bursa Province
{{Infobox award | name = Zee Cine Award for Best Actor (Popular) | image = AnupamKher5.jpg | caption = The 2023 recipient: Anupam Kher | awarded_for = Best Performance by an Actor in a Leading Role | presenter = Zee Entertainment Enterprises | country = India | year = Shah Rukh Khan, Dil To Pagal Hai (1998) | holder = Anupam Kher The Kashmir Files (2023) | website = Zee Cine Awards (from the web archive (7 Nov 2020) }} The Zee Cine Award for Best Actor – Male is chosen by the viewers of Zee Entertainment Enterprises as part of its annual award ceremony for Hindi films, to recognise a male actor who has delivered an outstanding performance in a leading role. Following its inception in 1998, a ceremony was not held in 2009 and 2010, but resumed back in 2011. Shah Rukh Khan, with seven awards holds the record of the maximum wins in this category. † - indicates the performance also won the Filmfare Award ‡ - indicates the performance was also nominated'' for the Filmfare Award Superlatives Multiple Winners 7 Wins : Shah Rukh Khan 3 Wins : Hrithik Roshan – Salman Khan 2 Wins : Aamir Khan List of winners and nominees 1990s 2000s 2010s 2020s See also Zee Cine Awards Bollywood Cinema of India References Best Actor- Male
Kunlong () is the capital town of Kunlong Township in Shan State. its coordination is 23 25' 00" N and 98 39' 00" E. The Wa people inhabit the hills immediately overlooking the Nam Ting valley. History It is the home of Kunlong Bridge over the Salween River. There was a 42 days-long battle between Burma Communist Party (BCP) and Myanmar Army from November 1971 to January 1972 to control that strategic bridge. Further reading Myanmar States/Divisions & Townships Overview Map References Township capitals of Myanmar
The Orang Batin Sembilan, Orang Rimba or Anak Dalam are mobile, animist peoples who live throughout the lowland forests of southeast Sumatra. Kubu is a Malay exonym ascribed to them. In the Malay language, the word Kubu can mean defensive fortification, entrenchment, or a place of refuge. It is metaphor for how the majority and dominant Islamic Melayu villagers believe them to use the interior forests as a means for resisting inclusion in the larger Malay social and Islamic religious world. As is the case with other forest peoples in the region, the term Kubu is associated with very negative connotations. Following Malay classifications, early Europeans divided the Kubu into two categories: 'tame' or 'civilized' Kubu, who were predominantly swidden farmers, and 'wild' Kubu, who lived deep in the forests, and made much stronger efforts to avoid close relations with the outside world. While closely related to Malay speaking peoples, these peoples represent two separate cultural groups, which have different economic and socio-religious systems. Orang Batin Sembilan Traditionally referred to as civilized Kubu, the Orang Batin Sembilan are a larger population of swidden-based peoples who live in the central and eastern lowland forests of South Sumatra (pop. ~35,000) and Jambi (pop. ~10,000) . Like other people in the region, these people traditionally use the swidden field as a base camp from which to exploit resources in the forests, particularly when collecting forest products for trade. Orang Rimba The Orang Rimba ('people of the forest') are a much smaller population of people (~3000) who live in the upstream regions of Jambi and South Sumatran. They have a unique, diverse economy, which shifts in and out of two base subsistence strategies: swidden farming and a very nomadic life based on foraging wild yams. This is traditionally combined with hunting, trapping, fishing, and the collection of forest products for trade. For many, part-time rubber tapping and participation in logging has gradually replaced the collection of forest products. Orang Rimba life is characterized by small and changing camps, which can be the size of a nuclear family when digging for wild yams, but more commonly is based around an extended family, and can include several extended families whenever swidden farming. Their social relations are very egalitarian, while hierarchies are largely based upon age, gender and knowledge of religion and culture law. Sokola Rimba is a 2013 Indonesian film featuring the lifestyle of the Rimba people. Deforestation and government settlements Since the 1970s, many of these peoples have been displaced from their traditional lands by logging companies and palm oil plantations, and for some time have been the target of government settlement projects. Additionally, the peoples of these tribes are frequently being forcibly converted to state-approved religions, primarily Islam. Language The various Kubu languages belong to the Malayo-Polynesian branch of the Austronesian language family. They are isolects of the Malay language (Bahasa Melayu) spoken in the upstream regions of Palembang and Jambi, Sumatra. All are related to the Indonesian language, which is based upon a variant of Malay. References External links Description of the tribe by Warsi, the Indonesian Conservation Community WALHI (Friends of the Earth Indonesia) page about the Orang Rimba fighting for influence over how the Bukit Duabelas National Park is run. Sager, Steven. The Sky is our Roof, the Earth our Floor: Orang Rimba Customs and Religion in the Bukit Duabelas Region of Jambi, Sumatra. Hunter-gatherers of Asia Ethnic groups in Indonesia Ethnic groups in Sumatra Sumatra
Catharine "Katy" D. Garmany (born March 6, 1946) is an astronomer with the National Optical Astronomy Observatory. She holds a B.S. (astrophysics), 1966 from Indiana University; and a M.A. (astrophysics), 1968, and Ph.D. (astronomy), 1971, from the University of Virginia. Catharine's main areas of research are massive stars, evolution and formation; astronomical education. Garmany served as board member of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific from 1998 to 2001, and then the vice president from 2001 to 2003. She is most recognized in association with her work on star formation. In 1976, Garmany received the Annie J. Cannon Award in Astronomy from the American Astronomical Society. From 1976 to 1984, Garmany was a research associate at the Joint Institute for Laboratory Astrophysics (JILA). Since 1981, Dr. Garmany has been a professor with in the Department of Astrophysical, Planetary, and Atmospheric Sciences at the University of Colorado. Garmany is the former chair of JILA and has experience teaching undergraduate, graduate, elementary, and general public audiences through her work with the University of Virginia, University of Colorado, and the Sommers-Bausch Observatory and Fiske Planetarium, on Colorado's campus. She is also a member of the International Astronomical Union, the American Astronomical Society, the Astronomical Society of the Pacific, and the International Planetarium Society. Research Garmany's dissertation built upon three years of research on OB association III Cepheus at the Kitt Peak National Observatory in Arizona. Dr. Garmany and her research team study O- and B-type stars (see OB star), the largest and hottest stars of the galaxy. These stars form in OB associations, which defy typical gravitational bounds. Dr. Garmany was quoted, "an OB association is the closest thing to nothing that is still something." The significance of this research is associated with the star's potential to produce heavy elements when they explode. Garmany says that without OB stars, "there would be no planets like earth." Professional History Starting 1971 and lasting through 1973, Garmany worked as a research associate for the department which awarded her doctorate degree, the University of Virginia's Department of Astronomy. Garmany also taught for 3 semesters at Sweet Briar College in Virginia. In 1975, Garmany moved to Colorado when she obtained an associate position researching with JILA and teaching general undergraduate and graduate level astronomy at the University of Colorado. Garmany was selected as a fellow at the Center for Astrophysics and Space Astronomy (CASA) at the University of Colorado in 1985. Then beginning in 1990 she joined as a fellow of JILA of the University of Colorado, while maintaining her fellowship with CASA. She also led as director of the Sommers-Bausch Observatory and Fiske Planetarium and as a research professor at the University of Colorado. As director of the observatory and planetarium, Garmany was tasked with overseeing graduate students and maintaining the mission of the facility: to support instruction, provide public education through shows and displays, and to reach out to public school groups. " From 2000 to 2003 Garmany taught as an associate professor at Columbia University and as director of the Astronomy Program with Biosphere 2, a science research facility located in Oracle, Arizona. S Since 2004, she has worked as Sr. Science Education Specialist in the Office of Education and Public Outreach for the National Optical Astronomy Observatory. Personal History Garmany was accepted to and attended the Bronx High School of Science. There Catharine met lifelong friends who would also pursue doctorates in chemistry and biology. In 1970 she was married to George P. Garmany Jr., the two are now divorced. Garmany has two sons, Rick, born 1974, and Jeff, 1980. Recognition Garmany received the Annie J. Cannon Award in astronomy in 1976. This award was distinguished to Garmany for "promise in her field," according to the American Association of University Women. After receiving this award, Garmany was offered an associate position for postdoctoral work at the University of Colorado with the Joint Institute for Laboratory Astrophysics, of which she would later become chair. Garmany articulated the impact of this award on her and for future female candidates, saying "Young women who enter science begin with low self-esteem. And the ones who leave science feel that they are not doing well enough, when, in fact, they are doing as well as the men." She was elected a Legacy Fellow of the American Astronomical Society in 2020 References External links Astronomical Society of the Pacific Hot Stars: 6 years of progress. A NASA publication by Catharine Garmany 1945 births Living people American women astronomers Recipients of the Annie J. Cannon Award in Astronomy University of Virginia alumni Indiana University alumni Fellows of the American Astronomical Society
Indolamines are a family of neurotransmitters that share a common molecular structure (namely, indolamine). Indolamines are a classification of monoamine neurotransmitter, along with catecholamines and ethylamine derivatives. A common example of an indolamine is the tryptophan derivative serotonin, a neurotransmitter involved in mood and sleep. Another example of an indolamine is melatonin. In biochemistry, indolamines are substituted indole compounds that contain an amino group. Examples of indolamines include the lysergamides. Synthesis Indolamines are biologically synthesized from the essential amino acid tryptophan. Tryptophan is synthesized into serotonin through the addition of a hydroxyl group by the enzyme tryptophan hydroxylase and the subsequent removal of the carboxyl group by the enzyme 5-HTP decarboxylase. See also Indole Tryptamine References Neurotransmitters Indoles Amines
Stephen Mowlam OAM (born 22 December 1976 in Victoria) is a field hockey goalkeeper from Australia, who was a member of the team that won the golden medal at the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens by beating title holders The Netherlands in the final. He made his debut earlier that year during the Sultan Azlan Shah Cup in Kuala Lumpur, in the match against South Korea on 10 January. Mowlam is nicknamed Gimpy. External links Profile on Hockey Australia 1976 births Australian male field hockey players Male field hockey goalkeepers Olympic field hockey players for Australia Olympic gold medalists for Australia Field hockey players at the 2004 Summer Olympics 2006 Men's Hockey World Cup players Recipients of the Medal of the Order of Australia Sportsmen from Victoria (state) Living people Commonwealth Games gold medallists for Australia Field hockey players at the 2006 Commonwealth Games Olympic medalists in field hockey Medalists at the 2004 Summer Olympics Commonwealth Games medallists in field hockey Medallists at the 2006 Commonwealth Games
Mallu Adil Shah, of the Adil Shahi dynasty, was the king of the Bijapur Sultanate of modern-day southern India. He ruled for a short period in 1534, before being deposed and blinded. Reign Mallu Adil Shah succeeded his father Ismail Adil Shah's death. He was supposed to be in the company of evil habits. Punji Khatun, Mallu Adil Shah's paternal grand mother with the help of General Asad Khan deposed Mallu Adil Shah and declared his younger brother Ibrahim Adil Shah I as the king. References A Visit to Bijapur by H. S. Kaujalagi "Avalokana" a souvenir published by the Government of Karnataka Centenary Souvenir published by the Bijapur Municipal Corporation Wakiyate Mumlikate Bijapur by Basheeruddin Dahalwi Tareekhe Firishta by Muhammad Kasim Firishta Shawahidul Awliyae Bijapur by Sayyad Murtuza Quadri Gachi Mahal 16th-century Indian monarchs 16th-century Indian Muslims Sultans of Bijapur Adil Shahi dynasty
Marine Fighter Attack Squadron 142 (VMFA-142) was an aviation unit of the United States Marine Corps Reserve that was active from 1942 to 2008. At the time of its inactivation, the squadron was based at Naval Air Station Atlanta, Georgia and fell under the command of Marine Aircraft Group 42 (MAG-42), 4th Marine Aircraft Wing (4th MAW). Due to a re-organization within Marine aviation, the squadron moved to Naval Air Station Fort Worth Joint Reserve Base, Texas and was placed in a cadre status under Marine Aircraft Group 41. Mission Plan for the conduct of air operations in support of the Fleet Marine Force, supervise and train selected Marine Corps Reserve units, provide administrative and logistical support for selected Marine Corps Reserve units, and ensure mobilization readiness. History World War II VMFA-142 was first activated on 1 March 1942 at Camp Kearny, California as Marine Scout Bombing Squadron 142 (VMSB-142), Marine Aircraft Group 14, 1st Marine Aircraft Wing, Fleet Marine Force. It was assigned during August 1942 to Marine Aircraft Group 12, 2nd Marine Aircraft Wing before being reassigned during September 1942 to Marine Aircraft Group 11. The squadron was deployed from October to November 1942 to Espiritu Santo, New Hebrides, and reassigned to Marine Aircraft Group 11. During the next ten months they flew in support of operations on Guadalcanal and did not lose one pilot in combat over that time. The squadron was equipped with the Douglas SBD Dauntless. During World War II, VMFA-142 participated in the following Campaigns: Guadalcanal Southern Solomons Luzon Southern Philippines The squadron relocated in August 1943 to Marine Corps Air Station El Toro, California, and was reassigned to Marine Base Defense Aircraft Group 41. It relocated during April 1944 to Marine Corps Air Station Ewa, Hawaii, and was reassigned to Marine Aircraft Group 32. Post World War II The squadron was deactivated 21 September 1945 and reactivated 1 July 1946 at Naval Air Station Miami, Florida, as Marine Fighting Squadron 142 (VMF-142) and assigned to Marine Air Detachment, Naval Air Reserve Training Unit, Naval Air Station, Miami, Florida. The "Flying Gators" were reassigned in December 1946 to the Marine Air Reserve Training Command, Naval Air Reserve Training Unit, Naval Air Station, Miami, Florida. The squadron was redesignated 1 April 1949 as Marine Fighter Squadron 142, Marine Air Reserve Training Command, Naval Air Station Miami, Florida, later itself redesignated in February 1952 as Marine Corps Air Station Miami, Florida. The squadron was redesignated in September 1953 as Marine Fighter Squadron 142, Marine Air Reserve Training Detachment, Marine Air Reserve Training Command, Marine Corps Air Station Miami, Florida. The squadron was yet again redesignated on 15 May 1958 as Marine Attack Squadron 142 (VMA-142) and relocated during March 1959 to Naval Air Station Jacksonville, Florida. The squadron was reassigned during January 1971 to the 4th Marine Aircraft Wing, Fleet Marine Force before relocating during December 1978 from NAS Jacksonville to nearby Naval Air Station Cecil Field, Florida. Soon thereafter, in January 1979, the squadron was reassigned to Marine Aircraft Group 42 Detachment, 4th Marine Aircraft Wing, Fleet Marine Force and, a year later in January 1980, reassigned again to Marine Aircraft Group 42, Detachment A, 4th Marine Aircraft Wing, Fleet Marine Force. During the early 70's the squadron flew the J-65 powered A-4L before transitioning to the newer J52-P-408 powered A-4F. The last A-4L departed in the summer of 1976. As active duty A-4 units transitioned to the AV-8B during the 80's, their A-4M's replaced reserve unit A-4F's. The squadron converted from the A-4M Skyhawk II to the F/A-18A Hornet and was formally redesignated on 21 December 1990 as Marine Fighter Attack Squadron 142 (VMFA-142). In August 1997, due to the pending BRAC 93-mandated closure of NAS Cecil Field by the end of 1999, the squadron relocated to Naval Air Station Atlanta, approximately North of Atlanta in Marietta, Georgia. It was the second F/A-18 squadron to be transferred to NAS Atlanta, having been preceded by the Naval Air Reserve's Strike Fighter Squadron TWO ZERO THREE (VFA-203), which was also previously based at NAS Cecil Field. VMFA-142 became part of the Department of the Navy TACAIR concept, which integrates both Marine Corps F/A-18 fighter/attack squadrons and Navy F/A-18 strike fighter squadrons into Navy carrier air wings. As a Marine Air Reserve squadron, VMFA-142 integrated into Carrier Air Wing Reserve TWENTY (CVWR-20). In May 2000, in a first for CVWR-20, five Marine Hornets from VMFA-142 joined the wing for carrier qualification, qualifying all five pilots. Three of the Hornets then flew to Naval Station Roosevelt Roads, Puerto Rico for additional Fleet training operations. Global War on Terror In February 2005, VMFA-142 became the first fixed wing Marine reserve fighter unit activated to combat since the Korean War. They deployed in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom and served at Al Asad Air Base, providing combat support in the Al Anbar province of Iraq until September 2005. In accordance with a Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission decision directing the closure of Naval Air Station Atlanta and its transfer to the Air Force Reserve Command as part of Dobbins Air Reserve Base, VMFA-142 was placed in cadre status in July 2008. Plans from 2010 to transition the squadron to the F-35B Lightning II Joint Strike Fighter by 2019 have since been scrapped, and the squadron no longer appears in the transition plan Marine Corps Aviation Plan 2017. Notable former members Christopher George - actor that served with the squadron during the 1950s See also United States Marine Corps Aviation List of active United States Marine Corps aircraft squadrons List of decommissioned United States Marine Corps aircraft squadrons References Notes Bibliography External links VMFA-142's official website Page showing the squadron's Iraq deployment Fighter attack squadrons of the United States Marine Corps Military units and formations in Georgia (U.S. state) Inactive units of the United States Marine Corps
Luis Enrique Sam Colop or Sam-Colop (born in Cantel, 1955, died July 15, 2011) was a Guatemalan/Native American linguist, lawyer, poet, writer, newspaper columnist, promoter of the K'iche' language, and social activist. Early life He was born in Cantel, Guatemala in 1955. Education Sam Colop graduated in Law at the Rafael Landivar University<ref> Alberto M. Fernández, [http://www.drclas.harvard.edu/revista/articles/view/499 Review of Kay B. Warren's Pan-Maya Activism in Guatemala] . ReVista online journal, Harvard (Spring 1999). </ref> and obtained his Ph.D. at SUNY, Buffalo in 1994 with a dissertation on Maya poetry. Teaching career He taught K'iche' Language at the Universidad de San Carlos, Guatemala. Starting in 1999 he was a Fulbright-sponsored visiting scholar at St. Mary's College of Maryland Books and articles Published works by Luis Sam-Colop include two poem collections, Versos sin refugio and La copa y la raíz as well as various essays and articles. He is best known outside Guatemala for a new edition of the Popol Vuh'' in the native language. He recently received a Guggenheim fellowship in connection with this work. External links Ucha'xik - A growing collection of his newspaper columns in the Guatemalan newspaper Prensa Libre from 1996 to 2011. References Linguists from Guatemala St. Mary's College of Maryland faculty K'iche' Guatemalan Maya people People from Quetzaltenango Department 1955 births 2011 deaths Guatemalan male writers Rafael Landívar University alumni University at Buffalo alumni Academic staff of Universidad de San Carlos de Guatemala
Bolt is the codenamed assigned to multiple fictional characters appearing in American comic books pbulished DC Comics. These characters, although unrelated, share the commonality of adopting the codename "Bolt" for their respective roles within the DC Universe. The original Bolt's real name is Lawrence "Larry" Bolantisky, whom also worked as an egineer and assassin. The character is later known to be a member of several groups, including the Killer Elite and Injustice League. The character was eventually killed off by son, Terry Bolantisky, who operates under the name Dreadbolt. Another unrevealed Bolt would take up the name, having been said to worked with Lawrence and sought to carry on his legacy. The name is also used by two unrelated superheroes in DC Comics. One is Alinta, a character created by Robbie Thompson and Javi Fernandez for the Teen Titans. Alinta, of Australian descent and with a disability, gains powers linked to the Flash through a fragment of the Speed Force formula. Initially involved in aiding her parents in stolen goods trafficking, she loses her legs as repayment for their debt. Found by Amanda Waller, Alinta receives prosthetics as part of their alliance. She later joins the Teen Titans Academy as "Bolt" while Waller attempts to recruit her for the Suicide Squad. Another unrelated superhero, Malik Adam White is a fictional superhero in created by writer Christopher Priest and artist Rafa Sandoval. He first appeared in the comic books and is depicted as an African-American man of Egyptian/Kahndaqi heritage. Malik is a descendant of the legendary character Black Adam. Throughout his comic book appearances, Malik adopts two different codenames, initially known as White Adam and later settling on "Bolt". Publication history Bolt first appeared in Blue Devil #6 (November 1984) and was created by Gary Cohn, Dan Mishkin, Paris Cullins, and Ernie Colón. Fictional character biographies Supervillain Bolts Larry Bolatinsky Larry Bolatinsky is a special effects artist and assassin. He designed a special suit that gives him the power to teleport and project energy blasts. Now calling himself Bolt, he has faced the superheroes Blue Devil, Captain Atom, and Starman (Will Payton). Bolt appears in Suicide Squad #63–66 (March through June 1992) as part of a more villainous version of the Squad propping up the dictatorship in the island of Diabloverde. Amanda Waller and her Squad take out him and his colleagues while attempting to remove the dictator. He joins a sub-group of assassins that call themselves the Killer Elite. One of their many battles puts them up against the merc team called the Body Doubles. Bolt is hospitalized in an off-panel battle. He joins the third incarnation of the Suicide Squad and apparently dies on his first mission alongside Killer Frost, Putty, Eliza and Larvanaut. He falls through a shaft, breaks his leg and is attacked by killer ants. He is seen dead in the hands of Killer Frost. He later turns up alive again in the pages of Identity Crisis #1 and is badly injured by two street kids, suffering a punctured lung and two punctured kidneys. He has since joined The Society. His seemingly miraculous resurrections have been noted by other characters, most notably during his recovery from his gunfire-related injuries. Bolt is member of Luthor, Joker and Cheetah's Injustice League Unlimited and is one of the villains featured in Salvation Run. He is one of the villains sent to retrieve the Get Out of Hell free card from the Secret Six. Bolt is later killed by his son Dreadbolt who uses his own suit's teleporting ability to send him into a brick wall. He has been identified as one of the deceased entombed below the Hall of Justice. He was subsequently revived as a member of the Black Lantern Corps. Terry Bolatinsky Bolt's son Terry Bolatinsky appears in Teen Titans #55. He initially attempts to befriend Blue Devil's former sidekick, Kid Devil, before revealing he is following in his father's footsteps as Dreadbolt. He tries to persuade Kid Devil to join his team, the Terror Titans, but when Kid Devil refuses, he joins the rest of the Terror Titans in defeating him. Later, at the request of the new Clock King, he is sent to help defeat Ravager, who already took out Persuader and Copperhead. He threatens to kill Wendy and Marvin, but Ravager calls his bluff and defeats him alone. He regroups with his teammates and attempts to take her down again, but is apparently killed in the ensuing explosion caused by Ravager breaking a gas pipe. He is later revealed to have used the teleportation system in his suit to get himself and his teammates to safety. In the Terror Titans miniseries, Dreadbolt is tasked by Clock King to kill his father, thereby proving himself worthy to lead his fellow Terror Titans. Clock King then renames him Bolt when he finally does. Disruptor, having lost favor from Clock King to Ravager, tried to manipulate Terry into killing her, but Terry was not fooled. When Clock King sets in motion his plan to destroy Los Angeles with an army of brainwashed metahumans, Ravager sets out to stop him. Bolt and the Terror Titans battled her, only to be outmaneuvered. Miss Martian, who had posed as one of the metahumans, freed the others from their brainwashing, and they came after the Terror Titans. Retreating to Clock King's lair for help, Bolt and the others are aghast to see Clock King kill Disruptor for her failure, and leave them at the mercy of the oncoming metahumans. Bolt offers to hold them off while his teammates get away, but they insist on fighting together and are eventually subdued, with Dreadbolt being defeated by electromagnetic-powered superhero Static. Two weeks later, Bolt and the remaining Terror Titans escape from custody, planning revenge on Clock King. Bolt III A new villain inspired by Bolt debuted as part of a team of supervillains hired by Prometheus. He later appeared, hired by Calculator, to help kidnap the Birds of Prey and kill Oracle. Calling himself Current, he explains that he worked with the late Larry Bolatinsky and wished to carry on his legacy. Following DC's "Infinite Frontier" relaunch, an incarnation of Bolt (possibly Larry or Current) appears as a member of the Suicide Squad under Peacemaker. He is immediately killed by an unstable Talon of the Court of Owls the team was meant to rescue. Powers and abilities Larry Boltanisky's abilites and equipment Larry Boltanisky is a skilled electrical engineer and thief. Thanks to a special suit that he designed, Bolt can teleport or fly short distances instantaneously. The suit contains an energy blaster, which can also be used as a weapon. Terry Boltanisky's abilites and equipment Terry's suit has all of the same abilities. References DC Comics supervillains DC Comics characters who can teleport Comics characters introduced in 1984 Fictional assassins in comics Fictional engineers Fictional thieves Suicide Squad members
The Zee Cine Award Best Actor in a Supporting Role- Male is chosen by a jury organized by Zee Entertainment Enterprises, and the winner is announced only at the ceremony. Actors Abhishek Bachchan and Anil Kapoor have won the awards thrice while Saif Ali Khan has won the award twice. The most recent recipient is Anil Kapoor. Multiple wins Winners The winners are listed below:- References See also Zee Cine Awards Bollywood Cinema of India Supporting Role- Male
K95 or K-95 may refer to: K-95 (Kansas highway), a highway in Kansas K-95, a rating for ski jumping hills indicating a construction point of 95 K95 FM, radio station K. 95, a Mozart symphony See also K-9 to 5
In geometry, a truncated 5-cell is a uniform 4-polytope (4-dimensional uniform polytope) formed as the truncation of the regular 5-cell. There are two degrees of truncations, including a bitruncation. Truncated 5-cell The truncated 5-cell, truncated pentachoron or truncated 4-simplex is bounded by 10 cells: 5 tetrahedra, and 5 truncated tetrahedra. Each vertex is surrounded by 3 truncated tetrahedra and one tetrahedron; the vertex figure is an elongated tetrahedron. Construction The truncated 5-cell may be constructed from the 5-cell by truncating its vertices at 1/3 of its edge length. This transforms the 5 tetrahedral cells into truncated tetrahedra, and introduces 5 new tetrahedral cells positioned near the original vertices. Structure The truncated tetrahedra are joined to each other at their hexagonal faces, and to the tetrahedra at their triangular faces. Seen in a configuration matrix, all incidence counts between elements are shown. The diagonal f-vector numbers are derived through the Wythoff construction, dividing the full group order of a subgroup order by removing one mirror at a time. Projections The truncated tetrahedron-first Schlegel diagram projection of the truncated 5-cell into 3-dimensional space has the following structure: The projection envelope is a truncated tetrahedron. One of the truncated tetrahedral cells project onto the entire envelope. One of the tetrahedral cells project onto a tetrahedron lying at the center of the envelope. Four flattened tetrahedra are joined to the triangular faces of the envelope, and connected to the central tetrahedron via 4 radial edges. These are the images of the remaining 4 tetrahedral cells. Between the central tetrahedron and the 4 hexagonal faces of the envelope are 4 irregular truncated tetrahedral volumes, which are the images of the 4 remaining truncated tetrahedral cells. This layout of cells in projection is analogous to the layout of faces in the face-first projection of the truncated tetrahedron into 2-dimensional space. The truncated 5-cell is the 4-dimensional analogue of the truncated tetrahedron. Images Alternate names Truncated pentatope Truncated 4-simplex Truncated pentachoron (Acronym: tip) (Jonathan Bowers) Coordinates The Cartesian coordinates for the vertices of an origin-centered truncated 5-cell having edge length 2 are: More simply, the vertices of the truncated 5-cell can be constructed on a hyperplane in 5-space as permutations of (0,0,0,1,2) or of (0,1,2,2,2). These coordinates come from positive orthant facets of the truncated pentacross and bitruncated penteract respectively. Related polytopes The convex hull of the truncated 5-cell and its dual (assuming that they are congruent) is a nonuniform polychoron composed of 60 cells: 10 tetrahedra, 20 octahedra (as triangular antiprisms), 30 tetrahedra (as tetragonal disphenoids), and 40 vertices. Its vertex figure is a hexakis triangular cupola. Vertex figure Bitruncated 5-cell The bitruncated 5-cell (also called a bitruncated pentachoron, decachoron and 10-cell) is a 4-dimensional polytope, or 4-polytope, composed of 10 cells in the shape of truncated tetrahedra. Topologically, under its highest symmetry, [[3,3,3]], there is only one geometrical form, containing 10 uniform truncated tetrahedra. The hexagons are always regular because of the polychoron's inversion symmetry, of which the regular hexagon is the only such case among ditrigons (an isogonal hexagon with 3-fold symmetry). E. L. Elte identified it in 1912 as a semiregular polytope. Each hexagonal face of the truncated tetrahedra is joined in complementary orientation to the neighboring truncated tetrahedron. Each edge is shared by two hexagons and one triangle. Each vertex is surrounded by 4 truncated tetrahedral cells in a tetragonal disphenoid vertex figure. The bitruncated 5-cell is the intersection of two pentachora in dual configuration. As such, it is also the intersection of a penteract with the hyperplane that bisects the penteract's long diagonal orthogonally. In this sense it is a 4-dimensional analog of the regular octahedron (intersection of regular tetrahedra in dual configuration / tesseract bisection on long diagonal) and the regular hexagon (equilateral triangles / cube). The 5-dimensional analog is the birectified 5-simplex, and the -dimensional analog is the polytope whose Coxeter–Dynkin diagram is linear with rings on the middle one or two nodes. The bitruncated 5-cell is one of the two non-regular convex uniform 4-polytopes which are cell-transitive. The other is the bitruncated 24-cell, which is composed of 48 truncated cubes. Symmetry This 4-polytope has a higher extended pentachoric symmetry (2×A4, [[3,3,3]]), doubled to order 240, because the element corresponding to any element of the underlying 5-cell can be exchanged with one of those corresponding to an element of its dual. Alternative names Bitruncated 5-cell (Norman W. Johnson) 10-cell as a cell-transitive 4-polytope Bitruncated pentachoron Bitruncated pentatope Bitruncated 4-simplex Decachoron (Acronym: deca) (Jonathan Bowers) Images Coordinates The Cartesian coordinates of an origin-centered bitruncated 5-cell having edge length 2 are: More simply, the vertices of the bitruncated 5-cell can be constructed on a hyperplane in 5-space as permutations of (0,0,1,2,2). These represent positive orthant facets of the bitruncated pentacross. Another 5-space construction, centered on the origin are all 20 permutations of (-1,-1,0,1,1). Related polytopes The bitruncated 5-cell can be seen as the intersection of two regular 5-cells in dual positions. = ∩ . Configuration Seen in a configuration matrix, all incidence counts between elements are shown. The diagonal f-vector numbers are derived through the Wythoff construction, dividing the full group order of a subgroup order by removing one mirror at a time. Related regular skew polyhedron The regular skew polyhedron, {6,4|3}, exists in 4-space with 4 hexagonal around each vertex, in a zig-zagging nonplanar vertex figure. These hexagonal faces can be seen on the bitruncated 5-cell, using all 60 edges and 30 vertices. The 20 triangular faces of the bitruncated 5-cell can be seen as removed. The dual regular skew polyhedron, {4,6|3}, is similarly related to the square faces of the runcinated 5-cell. Disphenoidal 30-cell The disphenoidal 30-cell is the dual of the bitruncated 5-cell. It is a 4-dimensional polytope (or polychoron) derived from the 5-cell. It is the convex hull of two 5-cells in opposite orientations. Being the dual of a uniform polychoron, it is cell-transitive, consisting of 30 congruent tetragonal disphenoids. In addition, it is vertex-transitive under the group Aut(A4). Related polytopes These polytope are from a set of 9 uniform 4-polytope constructed from the [3,3,3] Coxeter group. References H.S.M. Coxeter: H.S.M. Coxeter, Regular Polytopes, 3rd Edition, Dover New York, 1973 Kaleidoscopes: Selected Writings of H.S.M. Coxeter', edited by F. Arthur Sherk, Peter McMullen, Anthony C. Thompson, Asia Ivic Weiss, Wiley-Interscience Publication, 1995, (Paper 22) H.S.M. Coxeter, Regular and Semi Regular Polytopes I, [Math. Zeit. 46 (1940) 380-407, MR 2,10] (Paper 23) H.S.M. Coxeter, Regular and Semi-Regular Polytopes II, [Math. Zeit. 188 (1985) 559-591] (Paper 24) H.S.M. Coxeter, Regular and Semi-Regular Polytopes III, [Math. Zeit. 200 (1988) 3-45] Coxeter, The Beauty of Geometry: Twelve Essays, Dover Publications, 1999, p. 88 (Chapter 5: Regular Skew Polyhedra in three and four dimensions and their topological analogues, Proceedings of the London Mathematics Society, Ser. 2, Vol 43, 1937.) Coxeter, H. S. M. Regular Skew Polyhedra in Three and Four Dimensions. Proc. London Math. Soc. 43, 33-62, 1937. Norman Johnson Uniform Polytopes, Manuscript (1991) N.W. Johnson: The Theory of Uniform Polytopes and Honeycombs'', Ph.D. (1966) x3x3o3o - tip, o3x3x3o - deca Specific 4-polytopes
Mark Christopher Hickman OAM (born 22 August 1973 in Darwin, Northern Territory) is a field hockey goalkeeper from Australia. He was a part of the team that won the gold medal at the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens, Greece. References External links 1973 births Living people Australian male field hockey players Olympic field hockey players for Australia Male field hockey goalkeepers Olympic gold medalists for Australia 2002 Men's Hockey World Cup players Field hockey players at the 2004 Summer Olympics Recipients of the Medal of the Order of Australia Sportspeople from Darwin, Northern Territory People educated at Hale School Olympic medalists in field hockey Medalists at the 2004 Summer Olympics Commonwealth Games medallists in field hockey Commonwealth Games gold medallists for Australia Field hockey players at the 1998 Commonwealth Games Field hockey players at the 2002 Commonwealth Games Medallists at the 1998 Commonwealth Games Medallists at the 2002 Commonwealth Games Sportsmen from the Northern Territory
Nathan Smith (January 8, 1770December 6, 1835) was a United States senator from Connecticut. Biography Nathan Smith was born in Woodbury, Connecticut, son of Richard and Annis (Hurd) Smith; brother of Nathaniel Smith and uncle of Truman Smith. He received a modest education. He studied law with his brother and at Litchfield Law School in 1790; was admitted to the bar in 1792, and commenced the practice of his profession in New Haven. In 1808 Smith received an honorary master's from Yale. He was also an incorporator of Washington College, later known as Trinity College in Hartford, Connecticut. Career Smith was prosecuting attorney for New Haven County from 1817 until his death in 1835. He was also a delegate to the State constitutional convention in 1818. In 1825, he was an unsuccessful candidate for governor of Connecticut, but was appointed United States Attorney for the district of Connecticut, serving in 1828 and 1829. Elected as a National Republican to the United States Senate, Smith served from March 4, 1833, until his death. He was 63 when he took his seat in the US Senate, one of the oldest serving members of that body and his only time in elected office. Death Smith died in Washington, D.C., on December 6, 1835 (age 65 years, 332 days). President Jackson and his Cabinet attended Smith's funeral in the Senate Chamber and there was also a large funeral service held in New Haven. He is interred at the Grove Street Cemetery, New Haven, Connecticut. There is a cenotaph at Congressional Cemetery, Washington, D.C. See also List of United States Congress members who died in office (1790–1899) References External links 1770 births 1835 deaths People from Woodbury, Connecticut People of colonial Connecticut Connecticut Federalists National Republican Party United States senators from Connecticut United States Attorneys for the District of Connecticut Trinity College (Connecticut) Burials at Grove Street Cemetery
The Government District is an area in south-central downtown Dallas, Texas (USA). It lies south of the Main Street District, southeast of the West End Historic District, north of the Convention Center District, west of the Farmers Market District, and east of the Reunion District. Notable structures The district is home to Dallas City Hall, the J. Erik Jonsson Central Library, and several other local, regional, state, and federal government buildings. The United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas, which exercises original jurisdiction over 100 counties in North and West Texas, convenes in the Earle Cabell Federal Building and Courthouse in the district. The same building additionally houses United States Bankruptcy and Magistrate Courts and a United States Attorney office. The historic Santa Fe Freight Terminal also lies in this district, stretching from Young to Commerce Street. Education The district is zoned to schools in the Dallas Independent School District. Residents of the district are zoned to City Park Elementary School, Billy Earl Dade Middle School, and James Madison High School. References Government of Dallas
Art Good is an American radio personality who helped make smooth jazz popular during the 1980s through his program JazzTrax. Before becoming a disk jockey, he contemplated becoming a minister. In 1981, while he was Program Director for KIFM, a struggling adult contemporary station in San Diego, he began an evening program of jazz-tinged instrumentals entitled Lites Out San Diego. By 1987, KIFM had changed its format to contemporary jazz. Good left KIFM for a brief period to host a program on competitor KSWV 102.9 but returned when the station discontinued its smooth jazz format. In 1987, he founded the Catalina JazzTrax Festival on Santa Catalina Island in California. That festival hosted Spyro Gyra, Al Di Meola, Earl Klugh, and Andy Narell. He was given an Industry Achievement Award at the National Smooth Jazz Awards in San Diego. His mellow-toned, soothing voice has been characterized as the quintessential Jazz DJ voice. References External links JazzTrax American radio personalities Radio personalities from San Diego Year of birth missing (living people) Living people
Flock of Dodos: The Evolution-Intelligent Design Circus is a documentary film by American marine biologist and filmmaker Randy Olson. It highlights the debate between proponents of the concept of intelligent design and the scientific evidence and consensus that supports evolution, as well as the potential consequences of science rejection. The documentary was first screened publicly on February 2, 2006, in Kansas, where much of the public controversy on intelligent design began, as well as the starting point of discussion in the documentary. Other public screenings followed in universities, including Harvard and Stony Brook University, marking the celebration of Charles Darwin's birthday. Synopsis Flock of Dodos examines the disagreements that proponents of intelligent design have with the scientific consensus position of evolution. Olsen also expressed concerns in relation to the potential to distrust and reject science in general. The evolutionarily famous dodo (Raphus cucullatus) is a now-extinct bird that lived on the island of Mauritius. Due to its lack of fear of humans and inability to fly, the dodo was easy prey, and thus became known for its apparent stupidity. The film attempts to determine who the real "dodos" are in a constantly evolving world: the scientists who are failing to effectively promote evolution as a scientifically accepted fact, the intelligent design advocates, or the American public who get fooled by the "salesmanship" of evolution critics. The film gives equal air time to both sides of the argument, including intelligent design proponent Michael Behe and several of his colleagues. While Randy Olson ultimately sides with the scientists who accept evolution, the scientists are criticized for their elitism and inability to efficiently present science to the general public, which ultimately contributes to the spread of misconceptions. The film begins by going over the history of intelligent design thought from Plato and Paley to the present-day incarnation promoted by the Discovery Institute. Olson mixes in humorous cartoons of squawking dodos with commentary from his mother and interviews with proponents on both sides of the intelligent design/evolution debate. On the intelligent design side, Olson interviews Behe, John Calvart (founder of the Access Research Network) and a member of the Kansas school board. Olson also unsuccessfully tries to interview Kansas Board of Education member Connie Morris (associated with Kansas evolution hearings) and members of the Discovery Institute. Release The documentary premiered at the Tribeca Film Festival in New York, in April 2006, and since then has played at film festivals all over the U.S. and abroad. The documentary was shown in museums and universities as part of a "Dodos Darwin Day" event (celebrating Charles Darwin's birthday) on or around February 12, 2007. Flock of Dodos: the Evolution-Intelligent Design Circus is currently (as of January 2008) in rotation on Showtime in the US and available on DVD. The documentary was praised by the journal Nature and a variety of other publications. In 2007, Olson released a collection of "pulled punches," of unreleased material that he chose to leave out that reflected poorly on intelligent design supporters. Discovery Institute response Olson invited the Discovery Institute, a hub of the intelligent design movement, to appear in the film. Instead the institute responded by creating a website, Hoax of Dodos, characterizing the documentary as "revisionist history," and a "hoax" filled with inaccuracies and misrepresentations. Biologist PZ Myers responded to the institute's "bogus complaint that Olson was lying in the movie" about Ernst Haeckel's drawings of embryos is false. Myers explained the drawings have not been used in recent biology textbooks "other than a mention that once upon a time Haeckel came up with this idea of ontogeny recapitulating phylogeny." Myers and other critics of intelligent design have shown that each of these texts treats Haeckel's theory of ontogeny recapitulating phylogeny as an example of an outdated exaggeration. Myers notes in his rebuttal of the criticism from design proponents that, "I would add that progress in evolutionary biology has led to better explanations of the phenomenon that vertebrate embryos go through a period of similarity: it lies in conserved genetic circuitry that lays down the body plan." In early 2007, in response to Olson's claim, "the Discovery Institute is truly the big fish in this picture, with an annual budget of around $5 million," the Institute responded that their budget is only $4.2 million, and that they spend close to $1 million per year funding intelligent design. References External links Flock of Dodos Science Friday Commentary (Feb. 23. 07) Profile of "Flock of Dodos" director Randy Olson by Eric Sorensen in (2007) Forward thinkers: People to watch in 2007. Conservation, 8(1). PZ Myers responding to the criticisms about Haeckel's drawings 2006 films 2006 documentary films Works about creationism Intelligent design American documentary films Documentary films about education in the United States Documentary films about science 2000s English-language films 2000s American films
The Convention Center District is an area in southern downtown Dallas, Texas (USA). It lies south of the Government District, north of the Cedars, west of the Farmers Market District, and east of the Reunion District. Visitdallas is contracted by the City to attract conventions, although an audit released in January 2019 cast doubts on its effectiveness. Attractions Dallas Convention Center Pioneer Plaza Pioneer Park Cemetery Transportation Highways - Interstate 30 - Interstate 35E Trains DART: and Convention Center Station Air Dallas CBD Vertiport Education The district is zoned to schools in the Dallas Independent School District. Residents of the district are zoned to City Park Elementary School, Billy Earl Dade Middle School, and James Madison High School. References External links Dallas Convention & Visitors Bureau
Charles Edward Rhodes Bruce (C.E.R. Bruce) (19 Apr 1902 in Shettleston – 30 Dec 1979) was a Scottish electrical engineer and amateur astrophysicist. Education and career Bruce was the son of a tailor. His family moved soon after his birth from Glasgow to Newport-on-Tay, where he went to primary school. At the age of 14, he went to Dundee to be educated at the High School of Dundee. He then matriculated at the University of Edinburgh where he graduated MA and BSc in 1924 with First Class Honours in Mathematics and Natural Philosophy. He then started training at the Moray House Teachers Training College, and was offered teaching positions at the High School of Dundee and Daniel Stewart's College, where he had carried out his practical teacher training; instead, he joined the Electrical Research Association (now ERA Technology Ltd) in Leatherhead, England, on the recommendation of his former professor, E. T. Whittaker. Bruce was elected as a fellow of the Institute of Physics in 1946 and of the Institute of Electrical Engineers in 1947. In 1952, he submitted his papers on electrical discharges to Edinburgh University and was subsequently awarded a Doctorate of Science in 1953. Bruce retired from ERA in 1967. He married in 1971, late in his life, Jenny Davidson, a childhood friend to whom he had been briefly engaged while he was a university student. He died in 1979, after a long illness. Electrical work Bruce's first years at ERA were spent working on the analysis of oil-based circuit breakers. He published a sequence of papers on the subject including one that won the Institute of Electrical Engineers' Kelvin Premium award, and helped keep ERA on top of the then-rapid growth in circuit breaker technology. In 1939, still at ERA, he shifted his attention to lightning. His 1941 paper "The lightning discharge" is heavily cited, and was again the winner of the Kelvin premium. His contributions included a significant strengthening of the electrical gradients known to occur in lightning strikes, and a demonstration that grounding of transmission lines may be counterproductive. Astrophysics Beginning in 1941, when he attended a lecture on astrophysics at Edinburgh University, Bruce's own interests headed in the same direction. He immediately developed a theory that solar prominences consisted of electrical discharges in plasma, rather than of moving solar matter, and he eventually published over 100 papers concerning the electrical basis of various cosmological phenomena. However, his work in this area has been largely ignored by mainstream science. Notes External links Bibliography Electrical Discharge Theory Papers of Dr. Charles Edward Rhodes Bruce SAO/NASA Astrophysics Data System (ADS) 1902 births 1979 deaths Scientists from Glasgow Scottish electrical engineers Scottish astronomers People educated at the High School of Dundee Alumni of the University of Edinburgh People from Newport-on-Tay
Jim Cummins may refer to: Jim Cummins (photographer) (born 1944), American photographer Jim Cummins (reporter) (1945–2007), American television reporter Jim Cummins (ice hockey) (born 1970), professional ice hockey player Jim Cummins (professor), instructor at the University of Toronto See also James Cummins (disambiguation) James Cummings (disambiguation) Jim Cummings (born 1952), American voice actor and singer
The City Center District is an area in north-central downtown Dallas, Texas (USA). It lies south of the Arts District, north of the Main Street District, northwest of Deep Ellum, southwest of Bryan Place and east of the West End Historic District. The district contains a large concentration of downtown commercial space which prior to 1950 had been concentrated along Main Street. The district also contains remnants of Theatre Row, the historical entertainment area along Elm Street which contained theatres such as the Majestic Theatre. Notable structures and parks 2100 Ross Avenue Sheraton Dallas Hotel Bryan Tower The Drever Energy Plaza Fidelity Union Tower Republic Center Harwood Center JPMorgan Chase Tower KPMG Centre Majestic Theatre Patriot Tower Plaza of the Americas Renaissance Tower Ross Tower Thanksgiving Tower U.S. Post Office Corrigan Tower 211 North Ervay 505 North Ervay Hartford Building Thanks-Giving Square Aston Park Transportation Highways US 75 Central Expressway/ I-45 connection (unsigned I-345) Trains DART , , listed south to north Akard Station St. Paul Station Pearl Station Education The City Center District is served by the Dallas Independent School District. The neighborhood schools for downtown are outside of the loop. Four elementary schools—City Park, Sam Houston, Hope Medrano, and Ignacio Zaragoza; three middle schools—Billy Earl Dade, Thomas J. Rusk, and Alex W. Spence; and two high schools—James Madison and North Dallas, serve the district. Private Schools Holy Trinity Catholic School has served Dallas' central neighborhoods since 1914 and is located at the corner of Oak Lawn Avenue and Gilbert Avenue. Providing early education for three-year-olds through eighth grade, Holy Trinity is the oldest continually operating Catholic school in North Texas. Residents are also served by First Baptist Academy of Dallas, a Biblically-integrated, college preparatory K-12 school located in the city center district of downtown Dallas. References Neighborhoods in Downtown Dallas
Holy Family School may refer to: Holy Family School (Seattle, Washington) in Seattle, Washington Holy Family School (Port Allen) in Port Allen, Louisiana Holy Family Catholic School,West Yorkshire(England) See also Holy Family High School (disambiguation) Holy Family Catholic High School (disambiguation) Holy Family (disambiguation)
Karl Cortlandt Schuyler (April 3, 1877July 31, 1933) was an American attorney and politician from Colorado. A Republican, he was most notable for his service as a United States senator from 1932 to 1933. A native of Colorado Springs, Schuyler was educated in Colorado Springs public schools and worked at a variety of occupations, including teaching school and stenographer in a law office. After deciding on a career as an attorney, he attended the University of Denver's law school. He graduated in 1898, was admitted to the bar, and practiced successively in Cripple Creek, Colorado Springs, and Denver. Schuyler was recognized as a highly skilled corporate attorney, and represented railroads, mines, utilities, and other companies. He was also a civic activist, and served as a trustee of the University of Denver and Colorado Women's College. Schuyler was a delegate to the 1916 Republican National Convention, and in 1919 he served as chairman of Colorado's state Republican convention. In 1920, he was an unsuccessful candidate for the U.S. Senate. In 1932, Schuyler ran for the U.S. Senate again, winning the Republican nomination. He was a candidate for both the regular and special elections, and narrowly won the special election as he handily lost the regular election. As a result, he served from December 7, 1932, to March 3, 1933. On July 17, 1933, Schuyler was visiting Central Park in New York City when he was struck by an automobile. He was hospitalized, but did not recover, and he died on July 31. Schuyler was interred in Fairmount Mausoleum at Fairmount Cemetery in Denver. Early life Karl C. Schuyler was born in Colorado Springs on April 3, 1877, a son of Frederick and Eleanor (Nellie) Farnan Schuyler. Schuyler attended the public schools of Colorado Springs, after which he became an employee of the Colorado Midland Railroad, taught school, and worked as a stenographer in a law office. Schuyler was a descendant of Harmanus Schuyler (1727–1796), a cousin of Philip Schuyler, who served as an Assistant Deputy Commissary General during the American Revolution, responsible for acquiring and distributing supplies and equipment to soldiers of the Continental Army. As a result of this relationship, Karl Schuyler was a member of the Sons of the American Revolution. Career He graduated from the University of Denver's law school in 1898, and was admitted to the bar. Schuyler practiced in Cripple Creek, and then Colorado Springs until he moved to Denver in 1905. Schuyler was a successful corporate attorney, and served as general counsel for the Florence and Cripple Creek Railroad, Midland Terminal Railway, Colorado Telephone Company, and the United States Reduction and Refining Company. Schuyler was also a director or executive of several other corporations. He was a founder of the Midwest Oil and Refining Company, and served on the board of directors and as the company's counsel. In addition, he served as president of the Flower of the West Gold Mining Company and the Merritt Oil Corporation, and a member of the board of directors of the Gulf Oil Companies and the Amalgamated Royalty Oil Corporation. He also served as president of the Kinney-Coastal Oil Company and a director of the Denver National Bank. In addition to practicing law, Schuyler was a civic activist; he was member of the board of trustees for both the University of Denver and the Colorado Women's College. During World War I, he was an organizer of several Liberty bond campaigns in Colorado, as well as fundraising campaigns for the American Red Cross. His fraternal memberships included the Elks and Masons. United States senator A Republican, Schuyler was a delegate to the 1916 Republican National Convention, and chairman of Colorado's 1919 state Republican convention. He was an unsuccessful candidate for the U.S. Senate in 1920. In 1932, he was elected to the Senate to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Charles W. Waterman; he served from December 7, 1932 to March 3, 1933. He was an unsuccessful candidate for the full term beginning on March 4, 1933. After leaving the Senate, Schuyler resumed his legal and business interests in Denver. Fatal crash Schuyler was struck by a motorist in New York City on July 17, 1933. He had been staying at the St. Regis Hotel, and was walking in Central Park when the crash occurred. Death and burial Schuyler was hospitalized for his injuries, and died on July 31. He had given the police an alias at the time of the accident, and later told a friend that he did so because he believed his injuries were not serious and he did not want to alarm his friends and family. He provided his real name when he was admitted to Lenox Hill Hospital, but the police report was not corrected until after his death. His wife was notified of the accident while he was hospitalized, and she arrived from Denver in time to be at his bedside when he died. Interment was in Fairmount Mausoleum at Fairmount Cemetery in Denver. Family In 1905, Schuyler married Delia Alsena Shepard (1882–1973) of Colorado Springs. They were the parents of three children— William (born and died in 1908), Eleanor (1912–1999), and Karl Jr. (1914–1979). After Schuyler's death, his widow married Senator Eugene Millikin. References External links Road incident deaths in New York City American people of Dutch descent 1877 births 1933 deaths Republican Party United States senators from Colorado Colorado Republicans Schuyler family Pedestrian road incident deaths
Denny Zeitlin (born April 10, 1938) is an American jazz pianist, composer, and clinical professor of psychiatry at University of California, San Francisco. Since 1963, he has recorded more than 100 compositions and was a first-place winner in the DownBeat International Jazz Critics' Poll in 1965 and 1974. He composed the soundtrack for the 1978 science-fiction horror film Invasion of the Body Snatchers. Early life Zeitlin was born in Chicago, Illinois, and grew up in the Chicago suburb of Highland Park. He began improvising on the piano at the age of two. His father was a radiologist who played piano by ear. His mother was a speech pathologist and his first piano teacher. He began formal study in classical music at the age of six, switching to jazz in the eighth grade. In high school, he played professionally in and around Chicago, and by college at the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign, was playing with Ira Sullivan, Johnny Griffin, Wes Montgomery, Joe Farrell, Wilbur Ware, and Bob Cranshaw, among others. Mentors included pianist Billy Taylor and George Russell. Pianist Bill Evans, an early supporter, frequently recorded Zeitlin's composition "Quiet Now" and made it the title track of a 1970 album. Later life and career Signed by Columbia Records's John Hammond, Zeitlin began his recording career in 1963 while studying medicine at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, debuting as the featured pianist on the Jeremy Steig album Flute Fever, which also featured Ben Riley and Ben Tucker. Zeitlin's recording debut as a leader was the album Cathexis, with bassist Cecil McBee and drummer Freddie Waits. Zeitlin then moved to San Francisco in 1964 to intern at the University of California, San Francisco, followed by a residency. His next album was Carnival, with bassist Charlie Haden and drummer Jerry Granelli. That trio had a regular gig at The Trident in Sausalito, California, and recorded Zeitlin's next album, Shining Hour, there. Jazz critic Leonard Feather called Zeitlin "the most versatile young pianist to come to prominence in the early 1960s". Reflecting on Zeitlin's Columbia period, jazz historian Ted Gioia wrote that the pianist "had assimilated the breakthroughs of the previous decade, from the impressionism of Bill Evans to the free-fall explorations of Ornette Coleman, and blended them into a personal style that anticipated the next fifteen years of keyboard advances. He stood out from the crowd for the unbridled creativity of his work, the richness of his harmonic palette, and the sheer beauty of his piano tone". Between 1968 and 1978, Zeitlin integrated electronic keyboards, synthesizers, and sound-altering devices with acoustic instruments, working in multiple musical genres. The results were first heard in 1969 when Zeitlin composed and performed music for the "Jazzy Spies" sequences on the first season of Sesame Street, featuring vocal overdubs by Grace Slick. In 1973, he released Expansion, a trio album with George Marsh and Mel Graves, which DownBeat magazine awarded its highest rating. The period culminated with Zeitlin's writing the score for the 1978 remake of Invasion of the Body Snatchers, which turned out to be his only film score, despite numerous subsequent offers, because of the extreme workload of many 20-plus-hour days. While New Yorker film critic Pauline Kael thought the music occasionally overpowered the action, she called the score "generally dazzling" and a large contributor to both the humor and terror of the film. Beginning in 1978, Zeitlin focused primarily on acoustic music, continuing to play concerts internationally and recording some 22 albums. His projects included the solo album Soundings, the duo album Time Remembers One Time Once with Charlie Haden, and Denny Zeitlin Trio in Concert with bassist Buster Williams and drummer Matt Wilson. Zeitlin continued to draw strong reviews. Critic Doug Ramsey wrote that "Trio in Concert", released in 2009, "catches Dr. Zeitlin, at age 70, in his musical prime and his trio afire". He recorded his 2020 album, Live at Mezzrow, at age 82, Dual careers Since 1968, Zeitlin has been on the teaching faculty at the University of California, San Francisco, where he is clinical professor of psychiatry. He has a private practice in San Francisco and Marin County. He had a 30-year mentorship with psychoanalyst Joseph Weiss, founder of Control Mastery Theory. Zeitlin has combined his two disciplines in a lecture and workshop entitled "Unlocking the Creative Impulse: The Psychology of Improvisation". In comparing his two careers, Zeitlin has said it would be a mistake to think that psychiatry served merely to support his passion for music, when in fact he has a passion for both. "In each setting, communication is utterly paramount. There has to be a depth of empathy that allows you to really inhabit the other person's world. It comes out as a collaborative journey in both settings." Personal life Zeitlin lives in Marin County, California, is an avid mountain biker and wine aficionado, the latter interest shared with his trio. He has been married to actress Josephine Shady since 1969. Discography As leader/co-leader As sideman David Friesen, Other Times Other Places (Global Pacific, 1989) David Friesen, Two for the Show (Summit, 2000) David Grisman, Dawg Duos (Acoustic Disc, 1999) Jeremy Steig, Flute Fever (Columbia, 1963) References External links Official site 1938 births Living people American film score composers American jazz pianists American male pianists Jazz musicians from Chicago Columbia Records artists 20th-century American pianists 21st-century American pianists American male film score composers 20th-century American male musicians 21st-century American male musicians American male jazz musicians Sunnyside Records artists Concord Records artists Windham Hill Records artists ECM Records artists
Jazztrax, formally known as the Jazztrax Showcase of the Absolute Newest, is a weekly countdown of America's Top 20 Smooth Jazz singles by Art Good. The show was founded in 1985 by Good in San Diego and is currently broadcast out of the San Fernando Valley, the heart of smooth jazz. Each week, Art has an interview with a guest performer, while also playing a historic recording from the Jazztrax Archive. The show is syndicated to 44 different stations around the country, and webcast around the world. It is typically five hours long. Jazztrax has also expanded to include the world-famous Catalina Island Jazztrax Festival, the Jazztrax Baseball Train, the Big Bear Lake Jazztrax Summer Festival, and other events, most of which are also simulcast over the web. Also broadcast every Tuesday from 10PM to Wednesday 2AM on Crossover Radio Online External links The Official Jazztrax Homepage - Always Trax with an x Smooth jazz American jazz radio programs
Neil Mitchell AO (born 21 November 1951) is an Australian former newspaper and magazine journalist, radio presenter and television personality, best known for his long-stint on Melbourne AM talk-back station 3AW. Early career The son of a school teacher, Mitchell entered journalism aged 17, straight after completing high school. He has had involvement in newspapers, radio and television. Newspaper and magazine journalist He was one of the youngest ever editors of a major Australian metropolitan newspaper, The Herald, holding that position from 1985 to 1987. Mitchell was also a reporter, columnist and news executive at The Age for 16 years, including four years as sports editor. He has also worked for Time Magazine Television He presented documentaries and his own talk back TV program on both the Nine and Ten networks which were both short-lived. He also worked on two programs on the Seven Network and on Sky News Australia. Radio career 3AW Mitchell began working at Melbourne station 3AW in March 1987. Initially he worked part-time on weekends and as a morning fill-in host for former broadcaster Derryn Hinch and later became the host of the drive time program in October 1987. In 1990, he moved to the morning program where he has been a successful and influential figure ever since. In 1994 he appeared as himself in the first season of Australian comedy television series Frontline. Mitchell has a reputation for looking out for "the little guys" and spends plenty of on-air time trying to rectify problems brought to his attention by his listeners, who are encouraged to contact the program with examples of bureaucratic bungling and red-tape. A well-known example is his successful effort to have speed-camera fines from faulty cameras in Melbourne reversed, which resulted in the refunding of AUD26 million to motorists. Although Mitchell is on-air 08:30 to noon weekdays, his time commitment is much longer as he starts work at 5am and rarely finishes before 3pm. In December 2009, Mitchell was the subject of a concerted effort by rival newcomer talk station, MTR, to gain his services. After protracted negotiations between 3AW and soon to be out of contract Mitchell, he eventually stayed at 3AW, citing loyalty to his listeners as his ultimate reason for continuing at the station. He rejected a more lucrative offer from MTR. In August 2011, Mitchell signed a new three-year, multimillion-dollar contract with 3AW, which started in January 2012. In September 2023, Mitchell announced he would step down from his role at 3AW at the end of the year. Charity and community work Mitchell is involved in community and charity work both professionally and in his private life. Some of his successful on-air campaigns have included raising awareness for the building of a new facility for adolescents at Melbourne's Royal Children's Hospital and helping to set up Blue Ribbon Day for Victoria Police after the death of officers in 1988. Acknowledgement of Mitchell's hard work in this area is in the citation for his Order of Australia honour which includes the words, for services ".. to the community through a range of charitable institutions". Honours and awards In the June 2007 Queen's Birthday Honours List Neil Mitchell was made an Officer of the Order of Australia (AO) "For service to the print, radio and television media, and to the community through a range of charitable institutions". Over his years in the media Mitchell has won eight Melbourne Press Club Quill Awards for best radio current affairs report and one best columnist award. In 2011, Mitchell won the Melbourne Press Club Graham Perkin Australian Journalist of the Year Award, for excellence in radio journalism over a quarter of a century. He is the first radio journalist to win the coveted award. Mitchell is especially proud of this award as, in his words, "I’ve never thought too much about personal awards, but this is a very special one because I worked with him, and because it's about real journalism. You can get the Walkley just by being at the right place at the right time and doing a good job, whereas the Perkin is a recognition of a year of consistency." In November 2013, Mitchell won his first Walkley Award, in the radio/audio news and current affairs category, for his report that the Ford Motor Company would stop manufacturing vehicles in Australia after 2016. In March 2014, Mitchell was named as the winner of the 2013 Best Radio Current Affairs Report at the Melbourne Press Club's annual Quill awards. This award was for Mitchell's scoop on the Ford Motor Company's decision to end local manufacturing in Australia. Australian Commercial Radio Awards Mitchell has won many Australian Commercial Radio Awards (ACRAs) including:- 2007 Inducted into the Australian Commercial Radio Hall of Fame 2008 Best talk presenter 2011 Best talk presenter 2012 Best current affairs presenter 2013 Best current affairs presenter Personal life Mitchell has been married since the 1980s and has a son and a daughter. He rarely mentions his family life publicly. He is a keen supporter of the Melbourne Football Club. References External links 3AW website 1951 births 3AW presenters Living people Australian monarchists Journalists from Melbourne Radio personalities from Melbourne Shock jocks The Herald (Melbourne) people
Hermann III (c.994/995 - April 1, 1012) was a member of the Conradine dynasty. He was Duke of Swabia from 1003 until 1012. Life Hermann was the son of Herman II, Duke of Swabia and his wife Gerberga of Burgundy, daughter of Conrad I of Burgundy. He had many illustrious relatives. Through his father, Hermann was descended from Henry the Fowler; through his mother from Louis IV of France, Alfred the Great and Charlemagne. Hermann's sister, Gisela of Swabia, married Emperor Conrad II. Inheritance and regency In 1003, when Hermann was about nine years old, his father died and Hermann inherited the duchy of Swabia. Since he was a minor, Hermann's reign as duke was effectively controlled by his cousin, the King of Germany, Henry II, who was his guardian. Henry II was mistrustful of the Conradines. Herman III's father, Herman II, had opposed the election of Henry II as king of Germany in 1002, and promoted himself as a rival candidate for the throne. Henry II thus used his position as Hermann's guardian to limit the power of the dukes of Swabia. He took control of key places in Swabia himself (including Hohentwiel, Breisach and Zürich), and replaced the ducal mint with a royal mint. He separated Alsace from the duchy of Swabia and gave control of Alsace to one of his relatives, Count Gerhard. Henry's control over Swabia was still present when Hermann died, aged about eighteen, in 1012. Hermann III did not marry and had no heirs. The male line of the Conradines of Swabia came to an end with his death. Henry III selected Ernest to succeed him; two years later, Ernest married Hermann's sister Gisela of Swabia. Notes Sources S.Weinfurter, Heinrich II. (1002-1024) Herrscher am Ende der Zeiten External links Hermann III, Herzog von Schwaben (in German) 1012 deaths Dukes of Swabia Medieval child monarchs Conradines Year of birth unknown Year of birth uncertain
Charles Winfield Waterman (November 2, 1861August 27, 1932) was a Colorado attorney and politician. He is most notable for his service as a United States senator from Colorado. Born in Waitsfield, Vermont, Waterman graduated from the University of Vermont in 1885 and taught school before attending the University of Michigan Law School. Following his 1889 graduation, Waterman moved to Denver, where he became a successful corporate and railroad attorney and was active in politics as a Republican. After serving as a delegate to the 1916 Republican National Convention and running unsuccessfully for the Republican U.S. Senate nomination in 1918, Waterman was the Colorado manager for Calvin Coolidge's 1924 presidential campaign. After Coolidge won, he appointed Waterman general counsel for the Federal Oil Conservation Board. He was a delegate to the 1924 Republican National Convention, and later that year ran unsuccessfully for the U.S. Senate in a special election, losing the Republican nomination for a two-year term to Rice W. Means, who went on to win the general election. In 1926, Waterman defeated Means for the Republican nomination for a full six-year term. He defeated Democrat William Ellery Sweet in the general election, and served from 1927 until his death. Waterman became ill in 1932, and announced that he would not be a candidate for re-election that year. His health continued to worsen, and he died in Washington, D.C., on August 27. He was buried at Cedar Hill Cemetery in Suitland, Maryland. Waterman was also a noted philanthropist; in addition to creating a charitable fund for Colorado attorneys, he donated a substantial amount to the University of Vermont, including funds for the construction of a campus building named for Waterman and his wife. Early life Waterman was born in Waitsfield, Washington County, Vermont, on November 2, 1861, the son of John Waterman and Mary (Leach) Waterman. He worked on his family's farm, attended the Waitsfield public schools, and graduated from St. Johnsbury Academy. He graduated from the University of Vermont in Burlington in 1885, and was a school teacher and principal in Mooers, New York, Groton, Connecticut, and Fort Dodge, Iowa, from 1885 to 1888. Legal career Waterman graduated from the University of Michigan Law School in 1889, was admitted to the bar, and commenced practice in the Denver office of Republican politician John F. Shafroth. He later practiced as the partner of Edward O. Wolcott, and then as the principal of his own firm. Waterman was a successful corporation lawyer, and his clients included the Great Western Sugar Company, Great Western Railway of Colorado, Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad, Denver and Rio Grande Western Railroad, and New York Life Insurance Company. Political career He was also active in Republican politics, and was a delegate to the 1916 Republican National Convention. In 1918, he was an unsuccessful candidate for the Republican nomination for U.S. Senator; he lost to Lawrence C. Phipps, who went on to defeat John F. Shafroth (now a Democrat) in the general election. Waterman was a member of the University of Vermont board of trustees from 1921 to 1925; in 1922, he received the honorary degree of LL.D. from UVM. In 1923 and 1924, Waterman was active in the effort to elect Calvin Coolidge to a full term as president, and managed his campaign in Colorado; In December 1924, Coolidge rewarded Waterman with appointment as general counsel for the newly created federal Oil Conservation Board, a panel made up of the Secretaries of War, Navy, Interior, and Commerce. In addition, he was a delegate to the 1924 Republican National Convention. In 1924, Waterman was an unsuccessful candidate for the Republican nomination for the U.S. Senate seat left vacant by the death of Samuel D. Nicholson. He lost to Rice W. Means, a candidate supported by the Ku Klux Klan; Means went on to win the general election for the remainder of Nicholson's term, defeating John Shafroth's son Morrison Shafroth. Waterman ran again in 1926, and defeated Means for the Republican nomination. He then defeated former Governor William Ellery Sweet, the Democratic nominee, in the general election. He served in the Senate from March 4, 1927, until his death. During his Senate term, Waterman was chairman of the Committee on Patents and the Committee on Enrolled Bills (72nd Congress). According to one source, Waterman's Senate record made him the most conservative member ever of either the U.S. House or U.S. Senate. Philanthropy Bequests from the estate of Charles Waterman and his wife included the creation of a charitable trust to benefit Colorado attorneys who face financial burdens because of age or illness. In addition, the Watermans donated funds to the University of Vermont for the design and construction of the Charles Winfield Waterman and Anna R. Waterman Memorial Building. The Waterman building has been used for several purposes since it opened in 1941, and in recent years has been the location of admissions and other administrative offices. Death and burial Waterman became ill in 1932 and announced that he would not be a candidate for reelection. He died at the Wardman Park Hotel in Washington, D.C., on August 27, 1932. His remains were cremated and interred at Cedar Hill Cemetery in Suitland, Maryland. Family On June 18, 1890, Waterman married Anna Rankin Cook (1865–1939) of Burlington, Vermont. See also List of United States Congress members who died in office (1900–49) References Sources Books Newspapers Internet External links 1861 births 1932 deaths St. Johnsbury Academy alumni Colorado Republicans University of Vermont alumni People from Waitsfield, Vermont Republican Party United States senators from Colorado Politicians from Fort Dodge, Iowa University of Michigan Law School alumni
Mirvac is an Australian property group with operations across property investment, development, and retail services. History Mirvac was founded in 1972 by Bob Hamilton and Henry Pollack. It first project was a block of 12 apartments in Rose Bay. In October 2004 Mirvac purchased the James Fielding Group. Notable projects CSR Refinery, New Farm redevelopment Harold Park Paceway and Rozelle Tram Depot redevelopment Waverley Park redevelopmentWaverley Park Mirvac Office buildings Notable office buildings owned by Mirvac include: Allendale Square David Malcolm Justice Centre (50%) Westpac Place (50%) Shopping centres Notable shopping centres owned by Mirvac include: Birkenhead Point Outlet Centre Broadway Shopping Centre (50%) Cherrybrook Village Shopping Centre Cooleman Court Harbourside Shopping Centre Kawana Shoppingworld (50%) Rhodes Waterside (50%) Waverley Gardens Shopping Centre References Companies based in Sydney Companies listed on the Australian Securities Exchange Property management companies Real estate companies of Australia 1972 establishments in Australia
Malayikkuthu (Malayikuthu, Malayikkuth) is a dance ritual performed by the people of Malayi sect in Kerala, South India. Devakanni and Narada are two characters that comprise Malayikkuthu. Davakanni's costume consists of gold and silver ornaments, pleated cloths and dotted dresses. Narada wears silver ornaments and other colorful clothes. The face is decorated with turmeric and body paint. It is performed in front of a lighted lamp. (see: Nilavilakku) Devakanni enters first. Other designates too accompany. Narada enters later and they dance together. The theme of Malayikkuthhu is as follows: Seven virgins descended on earth to collect flowers. One lost her way and could not join others. Others headed back to heaven. A wandering Narada happened to see her and he wanted her to continue in this world itself. Malayikkuth is performed in the district of Kannur at Cherukunnu Thekkumpadath. This is also known as Devakkuth. See also Arts of Kerala Kerala Folklore Akademi Dances of Kerala
The Sporting Shooters' Association of Australia (SSAA) is a federated non-government organisation established in 1948 as a representative body to promote shooting sports and protect the legal rights and interests of firearm owners in Australia. the SSAA has a membership of around 210,000. In addition to the state branches overseeing various clubs and gun ranges, SSAA also has a national political lobbying department and an insurance arm. State branches run local- and state-level shooting competitions, while the SSAA also coordinates competitions at the national and international levels. History On April 15, 1948, about 100 shooters met in the Sydney's Railway Institute Building in Elizabeth Street to form The Sporting Shooters’ Association of Australia. One of the most notable changes since that time is the number of members, which continues to increase each year. In 1959, it had a mere 250 members, compared to today’s 209,000 members. Membership fees have also increased since the SSAA first formed in 1948, with urban members paid 10 shillings and country members paid 7/6. The SSAA began in New South Wales because of the government’s increasing involvement in firearms legislation. In 1950, NSW adopted the title of "SSAA NSW" so everyone was clear that it was not just a "one-state organisation". State branches came into being at different times, with Victoria in 1951, Queensland in 1957, South Australia in 1964, the Northern Territory in 1965-66, the ACT in 1965, Western Australia in 1967 and Tasmania in 1969. In 1962, SSAA National came to life as a result of a meeting consisting of 12 people. The group agreed that there was a need for a federal body, whose purpose would be to assist and advise state bodies. Structure The SSAA is organised at the bottom level as local sporting clubs, around locations and/or speciality shooting disciplines or conservation activities. Members may be unaffiliated with a club, or members of one or more clubs. Clubs are organised in branches, where each club sends two voting delegates to the branch AGM. A state may have one or more branches according to the population and size of membership. State level executive teams deal with state level sporting management and legislative issues, and elect the SSAA National Executive Board. SSAA states it is independent of any political party and supports politicians who support recreational shooting and hunting while condemning those that work against its members' interests. Tim Bannister is the organisation's inaugural CEO. Activities The SSAA at the club and branch level has many thousands of volunteers and officials running competitions and managing facilities of their clubs for all levels of competition. The SSAA manages more than 16 handgun, rifle and shotgun shooting competitions at the local, state, national and international levels, as well as having several branches devoted to historic and collectible firearms. The SSAA runs its own political lobbying department, the SSAA Legislative Action (SSAA-LA). The SSAA-LA is "dedicated to ensuring Australians are able to exercise their freedoms and calling out those who threaten those freedoms", and focuses on important political news, national and international perspectives on legislative and regulatory developments and other time-sensitive matters. The SSAA National E-newsletter is a free-of-charge subscription email service available to SSAA members, which allows subscribers to select preferred contents between regular and/or SSAA-LA news. Regular news includes current and upcoming news, views and events about firearms ownership, sport shooting and recreational hunting issues, plus special offers. SSAA-LA news includes important political news, national and international perspectives on legislative and regulatory developments and other time-sensitive matters. The SSAA also comprises an insurance arm, the SSAA Insurance Brokers Pty Ltd, which is based in Fullarton, South Australia and provides general insurance for the majority of major shooting organisations within Australia, as well as public liability insurance for SSAA members while shooting or hunting. Conservation and wildlife management SSAA South Australia created its Conservation & Wildlife Management (C&WM) branch in the 1990s, which focuses on the management of feral animals in South Australia. These include goats, gats, pigs, foxes and wild dogs, as well as occasional native species (in particular kangaroos) which are having a negative impact on the environment. C&WM collaborates with government departments, non-government organisations, private landholders and universities, and offers a free service to land managers to target a specific species. One of their most successful projects was "Operation Bounceback" in the Flinders Ranges of South Australia. It has won recognition and awards from government, the University of Adelaide, volunteer groups and the Nature Foundation. Facilities Each SSAA state branch runs/leases a number of shooting ranges and facilities, open to both SSAA members and non-members with varying fees and rules: New South Wales Metropolitan ANZAC (at Malabar Headland) St. Marys Silverdale Hornsby Holroyd (at Greystanes) Regional Coffs Harbour (at Dairyville) Ballina Kempsey Macksville Port Macquarie Cessnock Grafton (at South Grafton) Taree/Wingham Merriwa Newcastle (at East Seaham) Snowy River (Coolamatong) Southern Highlands (at Berrima) Goulburn Illawarra (at Hill Top) Batemans Bay Tenterfield Urbenville/Woodenbong Guyra (at Armidale) Kyogle Northern Rivers (at Casino) Glen Innes (at Emmaville) Armidale (at Balala) Mudgee (at Cudgegong) Orange Bathurst Deep Lead (at Parkes) Parkes (at Eugowra) Coonabarabran (at Ulamambri) Dubbo (at Wuuluman) Fairlight (at Moonan Flat) Forbes Gilgandra Grenfell Albury (at Ettamogah) Tumut Wagga Wagga (near Livingstone National Park) West Wyalong Hay Leeton/Narrandera (at Yanco) Griffith (also at Rankins Springs) Narrabri/Gunnedah Broken Hill ACT Majura Victoria Metropolitan Springvale Eagle Park (at You Yangs, near Little River) Regional Bendigo (at Marong) Cobaw/Kyneton (at Lancefield) Bonang (at Bendoc) Nhill (at Kaniva and Lillimur) Daylesford (at Trentham East) East Gippsland (at Buchan South) Wodonga (at Barnawartha North) Portland Warrnambool (at Allansford) Mildura (at Cardross) Shepparton (at Pine Lodge) Queensland Regional Biloela South Australia Western Australia Tasmania Metropolitan Oakdale (at Warrane) Glenorchy Regional Bracknell Westbury Sheffield (at Lake Barrington and East Sassafras) Scottsdale Huon (at Franklin) Blue Hills (at Copping) St. Helens Waratah Spring Bay (at Ashgrove) Bruny Island (at Alonnah) Macquarie (at Ross) King Island (at Lymwood) Northern Territory Micket Creek (at Berrimah) Alice Springs (at Ilparpa) Publications The SSAA publishes a range of publications, including: Australian Shooter (monthly) Australian Hunter (quarterly) Australian & New Zealand Handgun (annual) The Junior Shooter (biannual) SSAA's Comprehensive Guide to Shooting & Hunting in Australia Shooting and the SSAA - A Beginner's Guide A Journalist's Guide to Firearms and the Shooting Sports ASJ: The political voice of the SSAA SSAA National E-newsletter Field to Fork - The Australian Game Cookbook. Revenue The national branch of the SSAA collects tens of millions of dollars in annual fees. See also Gun laws in Australia References External links Gun politics in Australia Gun rights advocacy groups Shooting sports in Australia Sports clubs and teams established in 1948 1948 establishments in Australia
Najas, the water-nymphs or naiads, is a genus of aquatic plants. It is cosmopolitan in distribution, first described for modern science by Linnaeus in 1753. Until 1997, it was rarely placed in the Hydrocharitaceae, and was often taken as constituting (by itself) the family Najadaceae. The APG II system, of 2003 (unchanged from the APG system, of 1998), places the genus in family Hydrocharitaceae, in the order Alismatales of the monocots. An infrageneric classification of two sections is proposed: Section Americanae and sect. Caulinia. Species Najas affinis Rendle - South America, Senegal, Guinea-Bissau Najas ancistrocarpa A.Braun ex Magnus - China, Japan, Taiwan Najas arguta Kunth - Cuba, Costa Rica, Panama, South America Najas australis Bory ex Rendle - India, Madagascar, Mauritius, KwaZulu-Natal, Seychelles Najas baldwinii Horn - West Africa Najas brevistyla Rendle - Assam Najas browniana Rendle - southern China, India, Taiwan, Java, Cavern Island in Northern Territory of Australia Najas chinensis N.Z.Wang - Primorye, China, Taiwan, Japan Najas conferta (A.Braun) A.Braun - Cuba, Hispaniola, Panama, Brazil Najas faveolata A. Br. ex Magnus Najas filifolia R.R.Haynes - southeastern United States (Georgia, Alabama, Florida) Najas flexilis (Willd.) Rostk. & W.L.E. Schmidt (1824) - temperate Northern Hemisphere Najas gracillima (A.Braun ex Engelm.) Magnus - Asia, North America Najas graminea Delile (1813) - Africa, Asia, New Guinea, Melanesia, northern Australia; naturalized in California and parts of Europe Najas grossareolata L.Triest - Sri Lanka Najas guadalupensis (Spreng.) Magnus - North and South America, Caribbean Najas hagerupii Horn - Ghana, Mali Najas halophila L.Triest - Java, New Guinea, Queensland Najas heteromorpha Griff. ex Voigt - eastern India Najas horrida A.Braun ex Magnus - Africa, Madagascar, Sinai Najas indica (Willd.) Cham. (1829) - Indian Subcontinent, China, Southeast Asia, New Guinea Najas kurziana Rendle - Bihar, East Timor Najas madagascariensis Rendle - Madagascar; naturalized in Mauritius Najas malesiana W.J.de Wilde - India, Bangladesh, Indochina, Malaysia, Indonesia, Philippines; naturalized in eastern Brazil Najas marina L. (1753) - widespread and nearly cosmopolitan Najas minor All. (1773) - widespread in Europe, Asia, Africa; naturalized in eastern North America Najas oguraensis Miki - East Asia, Himalayas (Pakistan, Nepal, northern India) Najas pectinata (Parl.) Magnus - Sahara Najas pseudogracillima L.Triest - Hong Kong Najas rigida Griff. - eastern India Najas schweinfurthii Magnus - Senegal, Cameroon, Ethiopia, Sudan, Tanzania Najas tenuicaulis Miki - Honshu Island in Japan Najas tenuifolia R.Br. - Hong Kong, Southeast Asia, Australia Najas tenuis Magnus – India, Sri Lanka, Myanmar Najas tenuissima (A.Braun ex Magnus) Magnus - Finland, Russia, Hokkaido Najas testui Rendle - western + central Africa Najas welwitschii Rendle - tropical Africa, western India Najas wrightiana A.Braun - Mexico, Central America, Cuba, Bahamas, Venezuela; naturalized in Florida References External links Najadaceae in L. Watson and M.J. Dallwitz (1992 onwards) [http://delta-intkey.com/angio/ The families of flowering plants] : descriptions, illustrations, identification, information retrieval. Version: 9 March 2006. http://delta-intkey.com . Najas japonica Nakai- Flavon's art gallery Najadaceae of Mongolia in FloraGREIF Aquatic plants Hydrocharitaceae genera Taxa named by Carl Linnaeus
Matthew Wells OAM (born 2 May 1978 in Hobart, Tasmania) is a field hockey defender from Australia, who was a member of the team that won the gold medal at the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens by beating title holders The Netherlands in the final. Four years earlier, when Sydney hosted the Summer Games, he finished in third spot with The Kookaburras, as the Men's National Team is called. He had to miss the 2006 Men's Hockey World Cup due to injury. External links Profile on Hockey Australia 1978 births Australian male field hockey players Olympic field hockey players for Australia Male field hockey defenders Olympic gold medalists for Australia Olympic bronze medalists for Australia Field hockey players at the 2000 Summer Olympics 2002 Men's Hockey World Cup players Field hockey players at the 2004 Summer Olympics Field hockey players at the 2006 Commonwealth Games Field hockey players at the 2008 Summer Olympics Recipients of the Medal of the Order of Australia Sportspeople from Hobart Living people Commonwealth Games gold medallists for Australia Medalists at the 2000 Summer Olympics Medalists at the 2004 Summer Olympics Medalists at the 2008 Summer Olympics Commonwealth Games medallists in field hockey Olympic medalists in field hockey Medallists at the 2006 Commonwealth Games Sportsmen from Tasmania
is a Japanese actor, comedian, singer, and director from Kanazawa-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa Prefecture, affiliated with From First Production. He is married to idol singer and actress Midori Kinouchi. He is also known as the voice of Samuel L. Jackson in the dubbed version of the Avengers, as Nicholas "Nick" Fury. Filmography Film Director Munō no Hito (1991) 119 (1994) Tōkyō Biyori (1997) Rendan (2001) Sayonara Color (2005) Yamagata Scream (2009) Downfall (2023) Actor Gonza the Spearman (1986) Fancy Dance (1989) Best Guy (1990) Chizuko's Younger Sister (1991) Hiruko the Goblin (1991) Until the end of the World (1991) Sumo Do, Sumo Don't (1992) Like a Rolling Stone (1994) Rampo (1994) Tokyo Fist (1995) Gonin (1995) East Meets West (1995) Shall We Dance? (1996) – Tomio Aoki By Player (2000) – Taiji Tonoyama Agitator (2001) Waterboys (2001) The Happiness of the Katakuris (2001) Ping Pong (2002) Muscle Heat (2002) Azumi (2003) Swing Girls (2004) – Tadahiko Ozawa Sayonara Color (2005) Midnight Sun (2006) The School of Water Business (2006) Catch a Wave (2006) 26 Years Diary (2007) Kurosagi (2008) My Girlfriend is a Cyborg (2008) Tokyo! (2008) Hana Yori Dango Final (2008) 4 Shimai Tantei Dan (2008) Shinjuku Incident (2009) On Next Sunday (2009) Mutant Girls Squad (2010) Hara-Kiri: Death of a Samurai (2011) Karate-Robo Zaborgar (2011) Hello, My Dolly Girlfriend (2013) Lady Maiko (2014) The Big Bee (2015) Gonin Saga (2015) 125 Years Memory (2015) – Kudo Gold Medal Man (2016) Manhunt (2017) Color Me True (2018) Reon (2018) Out and Out (2018) Talking the Pictures (2019) Fly Me to the Saitama (2019), the governor of Kanagawa Prefecture Toshimaen (2019) Samurai Marathon (2019) Life on the Longboard: 2nd Wave (2019) Enter the Fat Dragon (2020) Dosukoi! Sukehira (2019) Not Quite Dead Yet (2020) The Grapes of Joy (2021) The Blue Danube (2021) Your Turn to Kill: The Movie (2021) The Way of the Househusband (2022) – Kikujirō Eguchi The Broken Commandment (2022) Maku wo Orosuna! (2023) – Matsuo Bashō Six Singing Women (2023) Dare to Stop Us 2 (2024) Television Hideyoshi (1996) – Toyotomi Hideyoshi Harlock Saga (1999) - Harlock 100 Tales Of Horror (2003) Good Luck!! (2003) Nodame Cantabile (2006) – Franz von Stresemann Teki wa Honnoji ni Ari (2007) – Hashiba Hideyoshi Kami no Shizuku (2009) – Doi Robert Saka no Ue no Kumo (2009–11) – Komura Jutarō Garo: Makai Senki (2011) (Episode 1) – Eiichi Anan/Cigarein Gunshi Kanbei (2014) – Toyotomi Hideyoshi Kamen Rider Ghost (2015) – Hermit, Edith Natsume Sōseki no Tsuma (2016) Saigo no Restaurant (2016) – Oda Nobunaga Byplayers (2017) – himself Samurai Gourmet (2017) – Takeshi Kasumi Totto-chan! (2017) – Sōsaku Kobayashi Chichi, Nobunaga (2017) – Oda Nobunaga Your Turn to Kill (2019) The Way of the Househusband (2020) – Kikujirō Eguchi Koeharu! (2021) – Enjō Kinakuji Reach Beyond the Blue Sky (2021) – Tokugawa Nariaki Okehazama (2021) – Hotta Dōkū I Will Be Your Bloom (2022) – Trinity Kasuga Television animation One Piece (2009) – Shiki the Golden Lion D4DJ First Mix (2020) – Dennojō Inuyose Digimon Ghost Game (2021) – Ghost Navigator Theatrical animation Patlabor 2: The Movie (1993) – Shigeki Arakawa Pocket Monsters the Movie: Emperor of the Crystal Tower ENTEI (2000) – Entei, Doctor Shurī (Dr Spencer Hale in the dub) Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence (2004) – Kimu Sword of the Stranger (2007) – Kachū The Sky Crawlers (2008) – Master One Piece Film: Strong World (2009) – Shiki the Golden Lion Penguin Highway (2018) – Hamamoto's Father One Piece: Stampede (2019) Over the Sky (2020) – Mogari Video games Binary Domain (PlayStation 3, Sega, 2012) – Yoji Amada Ryū ga Gotoku Kenzan! (PlayStation 3, Sega, 2008) – Nagayoshi Marume Haunting Ground (PlayStation 2, Capcom, 2005) – Cinematics director Nioh 2 (2020) – Tōkichirō Dubbing roles Live-action Batman Forever (1995) – Bruce Wayne/Batman (Val Kilmer) Batman & Robin (1997) – Bruce Wayne/Batman (George Clooney) The Avengers (2012) – Nick Fury (Samuel L. Jackson) Captain America: The Winter Soldier (2014) – Nick Fury (Samuel L. Jackson) Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015) – Nick Fury (Samuel L. Jackson) Avengers: Infinity War (2018) – Nick Fury (Samuel L. Jackson) Captain Marvel (2019) – Nick Fury (Samuel L. Jackson) Spider-Man: Far From Home (2019) – Nick Fury (Samuel L. Jackson) Secret Invasion (2023) – Nick Fury (Samuel L. Jackson) The Marvels (2023) – Nick Fury (Samuel L. Jackson) Animation Postman Pat (1994) – Narrator and all voices The Hunchback of Notre Dame II (2002) – Sarousch Ice Age (2002) – Diego Shrek 2 (2004) – Puss in Boots Ice Age: The Meltdown (2006) – Diego Shrek the Third (2008) – Puss in Boots Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs (2009) – Diego Shrek Forever After (2011) – Puss in Boots Puss in Boots (2011) – Puss in Boots Discography Singles "Wrestler" (1984) "Postman Pat no Uta" (1994) "Dokutoku-kun" (1995) "Deka Melon" (1997) "Kimi ni Hoshi ga Furu" (1997) "Nichiyōbino Shokuji" (1998) Albums Kawatta Katachi no Ishi (1984) Naoto Takenaka no Kimi to Itsumademo (1995) Merci Boku (1995) Merci Boku, Unpeu Boku ~ Live in Japan (1995) Eraserhead (1996) Kuchibue to Ukulele (2000) Other appearances Demento (PlayStation 2, Capcom, 2005) – Cinematics director, motion actor (Riccardo) Film awards 1991 Blue Ribbon Awards Best Actor (Munō no Hito) Hochi Film Award Rookie of the Year (Munō no Hito) Venice Film Festival FIPRESCI Prize (Munō no Hito) 1992 Japan Academy Prize Best Supporting Actor (Shiko Funjatta) 1995 Japan Academy Prize Best Supporting Actor (East Meets West) 1996 Japan Academy Prize Best Supporting Actor (Shall We Dance?) References External links 1956 births Japanese male film actors Japanese male television actors Japanese male video game actors Japanese male voice actors Japanese male comedians Japanese film directors Japanese impressionists (entertainers) Living people Male actors from Yokohama Singers from Yokohama Taiga drama lead actors Tama Art University alumni 20th-century Japanese male actors 20th-century Japanese male singers 20th-century Japanese singers 21st-century Japanese male actors 21st-century Japanese male singers 21st-century Japanese singers
Esther Sandoval (28 December 1925 – 6 February 2006) was a Puerto Rican actress and a pioneer in Puerto Rico's television. Early years Sandoval was born Esther María González in Ponce where she received her primary and secondary education. After graduating from Salinas High School, she attended Colegio Percy de Ponce (Percy College of Ponce) and earned a degree in secretarial sciences. Radio actress Sandoval went to work for El Día, a local newspaper in Ponce. She first came into contact with the field of communications when she went to work as a secretary for Emilio Huyke in the radio station WPAB. She auditioned and was named director of a program directed towards a female audience. In 1949, she informed her parents that she wanted to become an entertainer and she left for San Juan, despite their protests, and went to work for Ángel Ramos' "Radio El Mundo", which later became known as WKAQ. She was given the surname "Sandoval" by the Argentine actress Queca Guerrero. Sandoval landed roles in radionovelas (radio soap operas) and became known in Puerto Rico as "The Queen of the Radio Operas". Television debut In 1954, Sandoval became a pioneer in the island's television when she participated, alongside Mario Pabón and Lucy Boscana, in Puerto Rico's first televised telenovela Ante La Ley which was transmitted through Telemundo. The soap opera caused a national scandal in Puerto Rico because in one scene she kissed her co-star Pabon in the mouth, an act that was totally unheard of in those days. Theater in New York City Sandoval traveled to New York City, where she joined Míriam Colón's theatrical group "El Circulo Dramatico" (The Drama Circuit). Later she founded her own theatrical group and named it "Experimental Hall of Theater". They were located at the Lucerne Hotel of New York. There she produced and starred in Té y Simpatía (Tea and Sympathy) and Dondé esta la Luz? (Where is the Light?). Before returning to Puerto Rico, Sandoval made several presentations in the Teatro Puerto Rico. Return to Puerto Rico In 1959, Sandoval returned to the island and married Ivan Goderich, a Cuban soap opera musical director. They had two daughters, Yara Goderich and Ivonne Goderich. Ivonne would follow her mother's footsteps and become an actress herself. Sandoval continued working in soap operas, such as Bodas de Sangre (Blood Wedding), La Novia (The Bride), La Rosa Taluada, Un Tren Travia llamada Deseo, Santa Juana de America and Los Soles Truncos, where she acted alongside her daughter Ivonne and her son-in-law Xavier Cifre. She also lent her voice in the Spanish translation of movies. She was the voiceover of Joan Crawford, Barbara Stanwyck and Rosalind Russell. In 1978, her supporting role in the Telemundo soap opera Cristina Bazán was thoroughly acknowledged, alongside José Luis Rodríguez and Johanna Rosaly. In 1979, she participated alongside Norma Candal, Alicia Moreda, Gladys Rodríguez and Otilio Warrington in Jacobo Morales' movie Dios los Cría (And God Created Them), where she played the role of a prostitute. Awards and recognitions According to El Vocero (See reference) Sandoval received many awards and recognitions, including: Best Actress and Best Actress of the Year (1955) Golden Coqui for Best Actress (1966) Golden Aqueybana (1968 and 1974) Selected amongst the most distinguished Puerto Rican women during the celebration of the International Year of the Women The Golden Coral Award from the Festival of the New Latin Movie in Havana for her role in Díos los Cría The Legislative Assembly of Puerto Rico approved a life pension for her in 1998 in honor of her valuable contributions to the Puerto Rican theater The Puerto Rican Institute of Culture dedicated its 46th Festival of the Puerto Rican Film industry to her (1998) Amongst the movies in which she participated are: Creature from the Haunted Sea (1961) Thunder Island (1963) - Rena Traitors of San Angel (1967) - Doña Consuelo Las Pasiones Infernales (1969) "Cristina Bazán (1978) TV series - Rosaura Alsina Dios los Cría (1979) - Old Prostitute La Otra Mujer (1980) TV series Later years In the late 1990s, Sandoval suffered from the complications of various health problems such as Alzheimer's disease, chronic diabetes and a cerebral hemorrhage, which left part of her body paralysed. She had been hospitalized at the Antiilas Hospital of Rio Piedras for several years, before dying on February 6, 2006. Her body was cremated on February 10, in accord with her wishes. See also List of Puerto Ricans History of women in Puerto Rico References External links El Vocero - Adios a Esther Sandoval 1925 births 2006 deaths Actresses from Ponce, Puerto Rico Deaths from Alzheimer's disease Deaths from diabetes Neurological disease deaths in Puerto Rico Puerto Rican film actresses Puerto Rican stage actresses Puerto Rican telenovela actresses 20th-century American actresses 20th-century Puerto Rican actresses
The Explorer Newspaper is a weekly newspaper in Tucson, Arizona, United States. Its coverage area includes the towns of Oro Valley and Marana and the communities of Catalina Foothills, Casas Adobes, Catalina, SaddleBrooke, Tortolita, Oracle, along with neighborhoods in the City of Tucson and Pima County. It is the 9th largest newspaper in Arizona, with a circulation of 47,475. In 2007, it was sold to Thirteenth Street Media. It became part of 10/13 Communications, owner of the East Valley Tribune, in 2010. In April 30, it was sold to Times Media Group. References External links Official site The Explorers YouTube page Newspapers published in Arizona Mass media in Tucson, Arizona Newspapers established in 1993 Weekly newspapers published in the United States 1993 establishments in Arizona
John Albert Carroll (July 30, 1901 – August 31, 1983) was an American attorney and politician who served as a Democratic United States Representative and United States Senator from Colorado. He also served as a special assistant to President Harry Truman. Early life and education Born in Denver, he attended the public schools, and during the First World War served in the United States Army (1918–1919). He graduated from Westminster Law School in Denver in 1929, and was admitted to the bar the same year and commenced practice in Denver. Legal career In 1933 and 1934, he was assistant United States attorney, and was district attorney of Denver from 1937 to 1941. He was regional attorney for the Office of Price Administration in 1942 and 1943, and served in the Second World War as a commissioned officer in the U.S. Army from 1943 to 1945, after which he resumed the practice of law. Political career Congress In 1946 and 1948, Carroll was elected as a Democratic representative to the Eightieth and Eighty-first Congresses (January 3, 1947 to January 3, 1951). Senate campaigns Rather than run for re-election to the House in 1950, he was an unsuccessful candidate for election as a Democrat to the United States Senate. He ran for the Senate again in 1954 but was again defeated. He was a special assistant to President Harry Truman from 1951 to 1952. He was elected as a Democrat to the United States Senate in 1956, after defeating former United States Secretary of Agriculture Charles F. Brannan in the Democratic primary and former Republican Governor Daniel I.J. Thornton in the general election by a margin of less than one-half of one percent. He served in the Senate from January 3, 1957 to January 3, 1963. He was an unsuccessful candidate for reelection in 1962, having been defeated by Republican Peter H. Dominick. Retirement and death He was a resident of Denver until his death. Interment was at Fort Logan National Cemetery, Denver. Electoral history References 1901 births 1983 deaths Politicians from Denver Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Colorado Democratic Party United States senators from Colorado District attorneys in Colorado United States Army officers United States Army personnel of World War I United States Army personnel of World War II 20th-century American lawyers 20th-century American politicians Sturm College of Law alumni Burials at Fort Logan National Cemetery Military personnel from Colorado Fellows of the American Physical Society
Paul Morris may refer to: Paul Morris (educationalist) (born 1951), educational writer who published an influential work on the Hong Kong School Curriculum in 1998 Paul Morris (hurler) (born 1990), Irish hurler Paul Morris (musician) (born 1959), former keyboardist for Rainbow Paul Morris (PA announcer) (born 1938), Canadian PA announcer for the Toronto Maple Leafs Paul Morris (producer), American pornography film producer and owner of Treasure Island Media Paul Morris (racing driver) (born 1967), Australian V8 Supercar driver Paul Morris (professor), English-born New Zealand religious diversity scholar Paul Morris (writer) (born 1958), Scottish film writer Paul Morris (rugby league, born 1962), Australian rugby league footballer of the 1980s Paul Morris (1990s rugby league), Australian rugby league footballer of the 1990s See also Paul Maurice (born 1967), Canadian ice hockey coach
Hrehory Chodkiewicz (, ; – 9 November 1572) was a Ruthenian noble and military officer of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. He was a son of Aleksander, brother of Hieronim and Yurii, and uncle of Jan Hieronimowicz Chodkiewicz. He commanded the Grand Ducal Lithuanian Army during the latter part of the Livonian War after he had become the Grand Hetman of Lithuania in 1566. Early career Chodkiewicz was long held to have been born around 1505. However, Lithuania historian Genutė Kirkienė noted that in such a case Chodkiewicz began his political career in his mid-forties, when most nobles started in late twenties or early thirties. Kirkienė suggested that his father's marriage and birth of children should be moved from 1500s to mid-1510s. As a young boy Chodkiewicz was sent to the court of Albert, Duke of Prussia. He returned in 1532 with personal recommendation letters from Albert to King Sigismund I the Old, Prince Sigismund II Augustus and Queen Bona Sforza. The relationship and correspondence with Albert continued for decades; Chodkiewicz sent both of his sons to be educated at Albert's court. He received his first position at the court in October 1544 when incoming Grand Duke Sigismund Augustus made a series of new appointments and elevated Chodkiewicz to court chamberlain (podkomorzy). Soon, however, the Chodkiewicz family fell from royal grace when they opposed the marriage between Sigismund Augustus and Barbara Radziwiłł. It seems that Hrehory Chodkiewicz remained close with Sigismund Augustus and often accompanied the Grand Duke to hunting. After his father's death in 1549, he inherited Supraśl and surrounding territories, including Zabłudów and Choroszcz. Chodkiewicz family slowly regained royal favor after Barbara's death in 1551 and when other Radziwiłłs opposed the proposed Union of Lublin in 1562. Military achievements As voivode of Kiev, Chodkiewicz defended the region from Tatar invasion. In 1558, he achieved a victory in Podolia against the Crimean Khanate. This victory raised prestige of Chodkiewicz as a military commander. On the onset of the Livonian War, he was promoted to castellan of Trakai with intention to use his skill in the war. In 1561, Grand Hetman Mikołaj "the Black" Radziwiłł, Chodkiewicz, and his brother Hieronim led the Lithuanian army into Livonia where they achieved victory against the Tsardom of Russia. After this campaign, Chodkiewicz was promoted to Field Hetman of Lithuania. On 20 January 1564 the Lithuanians under his command killed Russian commander Shuisky and defeated the Russian army in the Battle of Ula, which significantly improved Lithuania's standing in the war. He was hailed as war hero and promoted to castellan of Vilnius. Royal favor continued: Hrehory's nephew Jan Hieronimowicz received his late father's position as Elder of Samogitia in 1564, brother Yurii, who traveled to Moscow for diplomatic negotiations, became castellan of Trakai and Hrehory was appointed Grand Hetman of Lithuania in 1566. Thus, Hrehory Chodkiewicz became the second man after Mikołaj "the Red" Radziwiłł and the Chodkiewiczs controlled three out of five top seats in the Lithuanian Council of Lords. In 1567, Chodkiewicz achieved another victory in Livonia, this time against the Kingdom of Sweden. Cultural activities Chodkiewicz devoted much attention to military matters. In 1562 and 1566, he wrote military regulations, which dealt with defense of fortresses and other matters. He also built and strengthened a number of border posts and conducted the military census of 1568 to determine how many troops each noble had to provide for the army. In 1563 Chodkiewicz founded an Eastern Orthodox church and a hospital for the poor in Zabłudów. Kirkienė found hints that Chodkiewicz was not strictly Orthodox and supported church union—eastern liturgy under the Pope in Rome. In 1566, Chodkiewicz sponsored Pyotr Mstislavets and Ivan Fyodorov, book printers who defected from Russia, and opened a printing press in Zabłudów. They published religious texts until Chodkiewicz's death. Titles and positions Chodkiewicz held the following positions: Court chamberlain (podkomorzy, 1544–1559) Starost of Kaunas (1546–1551), Rumšiškės (1551–1555), Karmėlava (1551–1563), Hrodna (1563–1569), Mogilev (1564–1569) Voivode of Vitebsk (1554) and Voivode of Kiev (1555–1558) Castellan of Trakai (1559–1564) and Vilnius (1564–1572) Elder of Samogitia (1562–1563) Field Hetman of Lithuania (1561–1566) and Grand Hetman of Lithuania (1566–1572) Family Around 1537, Chodkiewicz married Katarzyna from the Wiśniowiecki family who brought many new lands into the Chodkiewicz family. Chodkiewicz sued Konstanty Ostrogski and his son Ilia for various territories belonging to his wife. They had two sons and three daughters. The sons had no heirs and the Supraśl line of the family became extinct. The possessions passed to Yurii Chodkiewicz, brother of Hrehory. All daughters married members of the Lithuanian Council of Lords. The children were: Andrzej (born 1549) was starost of Mogilev (1574–1575). His father wanted him to marry a daughter of Mikołaj "the Red" Radziwiłł, but he died in 1575. Aleksander (born 1550) married Aleksandra, daughter of Wasyl Tyszkiewicz. Died in 1578 with no heirs. Anna married Pawel Sapieha, castellan of Kiev, and Pawel Pac, castellan of Vilnius Zofia married Duke Janusz Zasławski (died 1562) and Filon Kmita Czernobylski, voivode of Smolensk Aleksandra married famous military leader , voivode of Bratslav and Lithuanian Field Hetman, in 1559 References Notes Bibliography External links Closest family of Grzegorz Chodkiewicz 1510s births 1572 deaths Year of birth uncertain Military personnel from Vilnius People from Vilnius Voivodeship Grzegor Chodkiewicz Field Hetmans of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania Great Hetmans of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania Voivodes of Kiev
Anicuns is a city and municipality in central Goiás state, Brazil. Geographys Anicuns is located in the Anicuns Microregion, which includes 13 cities with a population of 103276 inhabitants in a total area of 5483.10 km2. It forms boundaries with the following the municipalities: North and Northeast: Itaberaí, Mossâmedes and Aurilândia South: Nazário and Palmeiras de Goiás East: Inhumas and Trindade West: São Luís de Montes Belos The distance to Goiânia is 86 km. Highway connections are made by GO-060 / Trindade / Claudinápolis de Goiás / GO-326. See Seplan Anicuns is situated on the right bank of the Rio dos Bois, the main river in the region and a tributary of the Paranaíba River. The important Rio Turvo also has its source in the municipality. The average elevation is 600 meters. The climate is tropical humid and the average annual temperature is 23 °C. Districts, Villages and Hamlets Districts: Capelinha and Choupana. Village: Poncionário. Hamlet: Boa Vista. Demographics Population density: 18.41 inhabitants/km2 (2007) Population growth rate: -0.13% Population in 1980: 23,150 Population in 2007: 17,705 Urban population: 15,228 The economy Economically, Anicuns has a variety of industrial activities. It produces bricks and tiles (six brickworks) and has 16 small shoe factories, specializing in leather boots. There is also cattle raising, both for meat and dairy, together with growing of sugarcane, coffee, and corn. There were three financial institutions in 2004: Banco do Brasil, Bradesco, and Itaú S.A. There was also an alcohol distillery using the availability of sugarcane. Most of the workers were engaged in transformation industries, public administration, and commerce. (IBGE 2005) Industrial establishments: 39 Retail commercial establishments: 185 Dairy: LEE Laticínios Ltda. (22/05/2006) Distillery: Anicuns S/A Álcool e Derivados (July/2007) Industrial park: Distrito Agroindustrial de Anicuns (June/2006) Agricultural Data Number of farms: 1,237 Total farming area: 52,201 ha. Planted area: 13,100 ha. Area of natural pasture: 33,078 Persons working in agriculture: 4,500 Number of cattle (head): 115.400 Area of corn: 4,200 ha. Area of rice: 800 ha. Area of sugarcane: 7,000 ha. Area of soybeans: 400 ha. Area of banana: 150 ha. Area of coffee: 230 ha. Health and education In the health sector there were 6 hospitals with 142 hospital beds. The infant mortality rate was 38.99 in 2000. (IBGE 2002). In the educational sector there were 17 primary schools and 4 secondary schools. There was a campus of the state university. The literacy rate was 85.8% in 2000. Municipal Human Development Index MHDI: 0.720 State ranking: 173 (out of 242 municipalities) National ranking: 2,616 (out of 5,507 municipalities) All data are from 2000 Origin of the name The name of the city comes from the Guanicuns Indians, who would hunt a bird with the same name (extinct). The anicuns bird was known for its beautiful feathers and song. The Indians made adornments from the feathers and ate the bird's tongue believing that it would allow them to imitate its beautiful singing. History Anicuns had its beginnings with the search for gold in the rivers. After the gold had run out the settlers stayed to raise cattle and grow crops. In 1841 Anicuns was already a district of the municipality of Palmeiras, becoming a municipality in 1911. In 1931 the name was changed from Anicuns to Novo Horizonte. In 1933 the district of Nazário was created to become part of Novo Horizonte. In 1938 the name was changed back to Anicuns. In 1952 Nazário separated to become a municipality. Tourism Anicuns has taken advantage of the Rio dos Bois to put on a canoe championship called Copa Brasil de Canoagem, which is accompanied by parades, cultural activities and regional musical shows. The competition, lasting three days, is one of the most important in the country. Tourist sites: · Poço do Boi de Ouro: craters with a depth of 30 meters. · Serra do Felipe: much used in hang gliding. · Morro do Chapéu: highest point in the region. · Morro de Monte Castelo: 7 km from the center of town, still has native forest on the top of the mountain. · Serra da Canjica: only 3 km from the town, is next to the São José Jica waterfall, with a rocky wall and a free fall of more than 70 meters · Cachoeira São José: 2 km from the town, the place is made up of rapids and small waterfalls. See also List of municipalities in Goiás Microregions of Goiás References Frigoletto Municipalities in Goiás
Elijah Boardman (March 7, 1760 – August 18, 1823) was an American politician who served as a senator from Connecticut. Born to a noted and politically connected Connecticut family, he served in the Connecticut militia before becoming a noted merchant and businessman. Becoming involved in property and land ownership in Connecticut and Ohio, he founded the towns of Boardman and Medina in Ohio. His involvement in politics also increased, and he gradually rose through the ranks of the local, and then national government, being elected by the Connecticut legislature to the United States Senate. He served as Senator from Connecticut until his death in Ohio. Biography Early life Boardman, was born in New Milford in Connecticut, the third of four children for Deacon Sherman Boardman (1728–1814) and Sarah Bostwick Boardman (1730–1818). His father, son of the first minister of the Congregational Church, was a "prosperous farmer", well educated and well versed in local politics – he was 21 times elected as a member of the General Assembly of Connecticut – and was familiar with "civil and military concerns of the town." The Boardman family were the town's founding family, and lived on a "substantial farm" on the Housatonic River. A biographer of his later wife wrote of Elijah Boardman: "Inheriting many of the good qualities of his father and his grandfather, he combined, with those good qualities, the energy and intrepidity of his mother and of his grandmother, respecting both of whom there are preserved family traditions of much historical and domestic interest." The biographer also noted Boardman to be "dignified" in personal appearance, and handsome. His brother, David Sherman Boardman, remarked that he was "inclined" to hilarity. Elijah Boardman was educated by private tutors – including tutoring in Latin by the Reverend Nathaniel Taylor and other matters by his own mother – at home before enlisting in the Connecticut militia to serve in the American Revolutionary War as a "common soldier", in March 1776 aged 16. Revolutionary War Under Captain Isaac Bostwick, Boardman served in one of the first sixteen regiments raised by the Continental Congress under the command of Colonel Charles Webb. Boardman was directed to Boston, and diverted to New London and New York City, where he took part in Battle of Long Island, however after defeat there and American evacuation to Washington, he was confined to a sick bed having exacerbated childhood medical difficulties and fever. After six months, having achieved an ultimate rank of sergeant, he obtained passage on a wagon back to New York, where he was discovered in poor health by a friend of his father, who sent word home for Boardman to be collected. Meanwhile, Boardman obtained a discharge from the army. In the summer of 1777, Sir Henry Clinton led British forces through Fort Montgomery and prompted a call-up of Connecticut militia, which Boardman joined until the danger passed following the surrender of General Burgoyne, whereupon the militia was disbanded. Now detached from the army, Boardman resumed his tutorship under John Hickling, a family tutor employed by Boardman's father. Mercantile employment In 1781, Boardman took work as a clerk and as a merchant. He spent time employed in New Haven, training as a shopkeeper in the store of Elijah and Archibald Austin, before setting up his own company in his home town of New Milford later that same year. This business, a dry-goods store, was operated in conjunction with his two brothers, David and Daniel. As part of his travels, he visited Ohio, where he founded the town of Boardman. In 1789, he was the subject of a portrait by Ralph Earl, which "portrayed the richly dressed dry goods merchant... in his store in New Milford... through the open door, bolts of textiles tell the viewer how Boardman earned a living." Earl's most "accomplished" and successful series of paintings were of the Boardman family. Boardman then married Mary Anna Whiting on September 25, 1792, for whom he would build '', which still stands in New Milford. By this time, he had also opened a second shop outside of any partnership with his brothers, which was situated in Litchfield County and was designed by architect William Sprats, and on October 10, 1794, his first son, William Whiting Boardman, was born. In September 1795, Boardman became a member of the Connecticut Land Company, and a purchaser of the Connecticut Western Reserve – now part of northern Ohio – which entitled Boardman and his associates to two townships located there, one of which being Medina. The site set aside to create a county seat was originally named Mecca, until it was realised that a nearby town was named the same. Boardman's land agent, Rufus Ferris Sr., became the first resident of Medina, Together with his brothers, Boardman had thus became the owner of a "considerable" amount of real estate, among the post-Revolutionary War landed gentry "among the town's highest taxpayers." Politics Boardman's initial ventures into politics are recorded in a letter to then-President Thomas Jefferson on June 18, 1801. He included a sermon of the Rev. Stanley Griswold, of the New Milford church, which discussed the new president as "an example of how evil could be overcome by good." Jefferson subsequently replied with a detailed critique of the sermon. Boardman became a member of the State House of Representatives for the period 1803–05 and again in 1816, before becoming a member of the State's upper house between 1817 and 1819, and a member of the State Senate between 1819 and 1821. On March 4, 1821, he was elected to the US Senate while living in Litchfield, Connecticut. He is listed by the Abridgment of the Debates of Congress, from 1789 to 1856 as having been present at Senate proceedings on December 3, 1821, in Washington DC in the company of Class-3 Connecticut senator James Lanman. Later life and death Boardman served in the Senate until his death during a visit to his son, whereupon he was succeeded by Henry W. Edwards. His cause of death is a subject of speculation, however biographer and son-in-law John Frederick Schroeder (m. Caroline Maria Boardman) related it while writing in 1849 to several bouts of cholera and fever Boardman had suffered throughout his life, particularly during a tour of Rhode Island in 1780, as well as other attacks in Vermont and New Hampshire throughout his life. Senator James Lanman proposed on December 5, 1823, a motion for the members of the Senate to wear "the usual mourning" for thirty days to commemorate his death. Boardman's body was returned home and interred in New Milford. He was survived by his first son, later politician William, and his second, Henry Mason Boardman. Mabel Thorp Boardman, American philanthropist, was his great-granddaughter. See also List of United States Congress members who died in office (1790–1899) Notes References External links Elijah Boardman's Portrait by Ralph Earl at the Metropolitan Museum of Art |- 1760 births 1823 deaths 18th-century American businesspeople 19th-century American businesspeople American people of English descent Businesspeople from Connecticut Connecticut Democratic-Republicans Connecticut Land Company Connecticut militiamen in the American Revolution Connecticut state senators Democratic-Republican Party United States senators from Connecticut Members of the Connecticut General Assembly Council of Assistants (1662–1818) Military personnel from Connecticut People from Boardman, Ohio People from New Milford, Connecticut People of colonial Connecticut People of Connecticut in the American Revolution United States senators who owned slaves
The LVII Legislature of the Congress of Mexico met from 1997 to 2000. It was the first session in 68 years where the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) did not hold an absolute majority over opposition parties in the Chamber of Deputies. The National Action Party (PAN), the Party of the Democratic Revolution (PRD), the Labor Party (PT), the Ecologist Green Party of Mexico (PVEM), and two independents combined for 261 of the 500 seats. References Congress of Mexico by session
The 2005-2006 season in Danish 2nd Division was divided in two groups. The two winners, Næstved BK and Aarhus Fremad, promoted to the 2006–07 Danish 1st Division, together with the winner of a promotion game, Thisted FC, between the two runners-up. Second squad teams can not promote, or play promotion game. East group Top goalscorers West group Top goalscorers Promotion game The two runners-up will play promotion game on home and away basis. First leg Second leg 2006 3 Danish
In numerical linear algebra, the Jacobi method (a.k.a. the Jacobi iteration method) is an iterative algorithm for determining the solutions of a strictly diagonally dominant system of linear equations. Each diagonal element is solved for, and an approximate value is plugged in. The process is then iterated until it converges. This algorithm is a stripped-down version of the Jacobi transformation method of matrix diagonalization. The method is named after Carl Gustav Jacob Jacobi. Description Let be a square system of n linear equations, where: When and are known, and is unknown, we can use the Jacobi method to approximate . The vector denotes our initial guess for (often for ). We denote as the k-th approximation or iteration of , and is the next (or k+1) iteration of . Matrix-based formula Then A can be decomposed into a diagonal component D, a lower triangular part L and an upper triangular part U:The solution is then obtained iteratively via Element-based formula The element-based formula for each row is thus:The computation of requires each element in except itself. Unlike the Gauss–Seidel method, we can't overwrite with , as that value will be needed by the rest of the computation. The minimum amount of storage is two vectors of size n. Algorithm Input: , (diagonal dominant) matrix A, right-hand side vector b, convergence criterion Output: Comments: pseudocode based on the element-based formula above while convergence not reached do for i := 1 step until n do for j := 1 step until n do if j ≠ i then end end end increment k end Convergence The standard convergence condition (for any iterative method) is when the spectral radius of the iteration matrix is less than 1: A sufficient (but not necessary) condition for the method to converge is that the matrix A is strictly or irreducibly diagonally dominant. Strict row diagonal dominance means that for each row, the absolute value of the diagonal term is greater than the sum of absolute values of other terms: The Jacobi method sometimes converges even if these conditions are not satisfied. Note that the Jacobi method does not converge for every symmetric positive-definite matrix. For example, Examples Example 1 A linear system of the form with initial estimate is given by We use the equation , described above, to estimate . First, we rewrite the equation in a more convenient form , where and . From the known values we determine as Further, is found as With and calculated, we estimate as : The next iteration yields This process is repeated until convergence (i.e., until is small). The solution after 25 iterations is Example 2 Suppose we are given the following linear system: If we choose as the initial approximation, then the first approximate solution is given by Using the approximations obtained, the iterative procedure is repeated until the desired accuracy has been reached. The following are the approximated solutions after five iterations. The exact solution of the system is . Python example import numpy as np ITERATION_LIMIT = 1000 # initialize the matrix A = np.array([[10., -1., 2., 0.], [-1., 11., -1., 3.], [2., -1., 10., -1.], [0.0, 3., -1., 8.]]) # initialize the RHS vector b = np.array([6., 25., -11., 15.]) # prints the system print("System:") for i in range(A.shape[0]): row = [f"{A[i, j]}*x{j + 1}" for j in range(A.shape[1])] print(f'{" + ".join(row)} = {b[i]}') print() x = np.zeros_like(b) for it_count in range(ITERATION_LIMIT): if it_count != 0: print(f"Iteration {it_count}: {x}") x_new = np.zeros_like(x) for i in range(A.shape[0]): s1 = np.dot(A[i, :i], x[:i]) s2 = np.dot(A[i, i + 1:], x[i + 1:]) x_new[i] = (b[i] - s1 - s2) / A[i, i] if x_new[i] == x_new[i-1]: break if np.allclose(x, x_new, atol=1e-10, rtol=0.): break x = x_new print("Solution: ") print(x) error = np.dot(A, x) - b print("Error:") print(error) Weighted Jacobi method The weighted Jacobi iteration uses a parameter to compute the iteration as with being the usual choice. From the relation , this may also be expressed as . Convergence in the symmetric positive definite case In case that the system matrix is of symmetric positive-definite type one can show convergence. Let be the iteration matrix. Then, convergence is guaranteed for where is the maximal eigenvalue. The spectral radius can be minimized for a particular choice of as follows where is the matrix condition number. See also Gauss–Seidel method Successive over-relaxation Iterative method § Linear systems Gaussian Belief Propagation Matrix splitting References External links Jacobi Method from www.math-linux.com Numerical linear algebra Articles with example pseudocode Relaxation (iterative methods) Articles with example Python (programming language) code
Craig Victory (born 3 February 1980 in Adelaide, South Australia) is a field hockey striker from Australia who played 102 international games for the Australia men's national field hockey team, the Kookaburras. He is a Commonwealth Games, World Cup and Champions Trophy Gold Medalist and was an Olympic Bronze Medalist with the Australia men's national field hockey team the Kookaburras at the 2000 in Sydney. As a successful coach, he has served as head coach of the South Australian Sports Institute (SASI) hockey program, head coach of the 2011 winning SA Suns (formerly Southern Suns) in the Australian Hockey League, Australian Junior Women's coach and assistant coach to the gold medal-winning Hockeyroos at the 2014 Commonwealth Games. Personal Craig lives in Adelaide, South Australia. Field Hockey - Playing Club Hockey Craig played club hockey for the Port Adelaide District Hockey Club Magpies. State Hockey He represented South Australia as part of the Southern Hotshots (now known as the SA Hotshots). International Hockey Craig was a member of the Australia men's national field hockey team the Kookaburras from 1999 to 2006, playing 102 games and scoring 36 goals. He was a part of the bronze medal-winning Men's team at the 2000 Summer Olympics and won a silver and gold medal at the World Cup and Commonwealth Games respectively. He had his jaw broken following an on field incident involving Pakistan captain Muhammad Saqlain in a match at the Hamburg Masters in August 2005. International Playing Career tournaments included: 1999 Men's Hockey Champions Trophy (Brisbane, AUS) – 1st GOLD 2000 Men's Hockey Champions Trophy (Amstelveen, NED) – 5th 2000 Summer Olympics (Sydney, AUS) – 3rd BRONZE 2001 Men's Hockey Champions Trophy (Rotterdam, NED) – 2nd SILVER 2002 Commonwealth Games (Manchester, ENG) – 1st GOLD 2002 Men's Hockey World Cup (Kuala Lumpur, MAS) – 2nd SILVER 2003 Men's Hockey Champions Trophy (Amstelveen, NED) – 2nd SILVER Field Hockey - Coaching State Coaching Craig was head hockey coach of the South Australian Sports Institute program and also served as the Hockey SA Game Development Manager in the early/mid 2000s. He coached the peak South Australian State Representative team, the SA Suns (then Southern Suns) to victory in the 2011 Australian Hockey League. International Coaching Craig was selected as coach of the Australian U21 Junior women's team, the Jillaroos, in January 2013 and coached them until 2016. Key tournaments were: 2013 Women's Hockey Junior World Cup (Monchengladbach, Germany) – 6th He was also a part of the Senior Women's team, the Hockeyroos, staff as assistant coach for: 2012–13 Women's FIH Hockey World League Semifinals (London, England) – 1st 2012–13 Women's FIH Hockey World League Final (Tucuman, Argentina) – 2nd SILVER 2014 Women's Hockey World Cup (The Hague, Netherlands) – 2nd SILVER 2014 Commonwealth Games (Glasgow, Scotland) – 1st GOLD References External links 1980 births Living people Australian male field hockey players Olympic field hockey players for Australia Male field hockey forwards Australian field hockey coaches Olympic bronze medalists for Australia Field hockey players at the 2000 Summer Olympics 2002 Men's Hockey World Cup players Field hockey players from Adelaide Olympic medalists in field hockey Medalists at the 2000 Summer Olympics Commonwealth Games medallists in field hockey Commonwealth Games gold medallists for Australia Field hockey players at the 2002 Commonwealth Games South Australian Sports Institute coaches Medallists at the 2002 Commonwealth Games Sportsmen from South Australia
The 16th Street Baptist Church is a Baptist church in Birmingham, Alabama, United States. In 1963, the church was bombed by Ku Klux Klan members. The bombing killed four young girls in the midst of the Civil Rights Movement. The church is still in operation and is a central landmark in the Birmingham Civil Rights District. It was designated as a National Historic Landmark in 2006. Since 2008, it has also been on the UNESCO list of tentative World Heritage Sites. Beginnings The 16th Street Baptist Church was organized as the First Colored Baptist Church of Birmingham in 1873. It was the first black church to organize in Birmingham, which was founded just two years before. The first meetings were held in a small building at 12th Street and Fourth Avenue North. A site was soon acquired on 3rd Avenue North between 19th and 20th Street for a dedicated building. In 1880, the church sold that property and built a new church on the present site on 16th Street and 6th Avenue North. The new brick building was completed in 1884 under the supervision of its pastor, William R. Pettiford, but in 1908, the city condemned the structure and ordered it to be demolished. Pettiford was pastor from 1883 to 1904. The present building, a "modified Romanesque and Byzantine design" by the prominent black architect Wallace Rayfield, was constructed in 1911 by the local black contractor T.C. Windham. The cost of construction was $26,000. In addition to the main sanctuary, the building houses a basement auditorium, used for meetings and lectures, and several ancillary rooms used for Sunday school and smaller groups. As one of the primary institutions in the black community, the 16th Street Baptist Church has hosted prominent visitors throughout its history. W. E. B. Du Bois, Mary McLeod Bethune, Paul Robeson and Ralph Bunche all spoke at the church during the first part of the 20th century. Civil rights era and the 1963 bombing During the civil rights movement of the 1960s, the 16th Street Baptist Church served as an organizational headquarters, site of mass meetings and rallying point for African Americans protesting widespread institutionalized racism in Birmingham, Alabama, and the South. The ministers Fred Shuttlesworth, who was the chief local organizer, Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC)) leader Martin Luther King Jr., and SCLC leader James Bevel, who initiated the Children's Crusade and taught the students nonviolence, were frequent speakers at the church and led the movement. On Sunday, September 15, 1963, Thomas Blanton, Bobby Frank Cherry and Robert Edward Chambliss, members of the Ku Klux Klan, planted 19 sticks of dynamite outside the basement of the church. At 10:22 a.m., they exploded, killing four young girlsAddie Mae Collins, Carole Robertson, Cynthia Wesley and Denise McNair. Twenty-two other victims suffered injuries. They were there preparing for the church's "Youth Day". A funeral for three of the four victims was attended by more than 8,000 mourners, white and black, but no city officials. This was one of a string of more than 45 bombings within the decade. The neighborhood of Dynamite Hill was the most-frequently targeted area during this time. The bombing of the 16th Street Baptist Church increased Federal involvement in Alabama. President Johnson signed the 1964 Civil Rights Act into law the following year; and in 1965 the Voting Rights Act was passed, making literacy tests and poll taxes illegal. Following the bombing, more than $300,000 in unsolicited gifts were received by the church and repairs were begun immediately. The church reopened on June 7, 1964. A stained glass window depicting a black Jesus, designed by John Petts, was donated by citizens of Wales and installed in the front window, facing south. Current status The church was added to the Alabama Register of Landmarks and Heritage on June 16, 1976. On September 17, 1980, it was added to the National Register of Historic Places. In 1993, a team of surveyors for the Historic American Buildings Survey executed archival quality measured drawings of the church for the Library of Congress. Because of its historic value on a national level in the moral crusade of civil rights, the church was officially designated a National Historic Landmark on February 20, 2006, by the United States Department of the Interior. On January 1, 2008, the US Government submitted it to UNESCO as part of an envisaged future World Heritage nomination and as such it is on the so-called UNESCO 'Tentative List of World Heritage Sites'. In 2017, the church became part of the newly created Birmingham Civil Rights National Monument. As part of the Birmingham Civil Rights District, the 16th Street Baptist Church receives more than 200,000 visitors annually. Though the current membership is only around 500, it has an average weekly attendance of nearly 2,000. The church also operates a large drug counseling program. The current pastor is the Reverend Arthur Price. Across from the church at Kelly Ingram Park is the Birmingham Civil Rights Institute, which plans events that teach and promote the history of human rights. The 16th Street Baptist Church engaged in a $3 million restoration of the building in the first decade of the 21st century. Persistent water damage problems and exterior brick facing failure were addressed. The first phase of restoration, mainly below-grade waterproofing, was completed in 2007, followed by work on the exterior masonry. Additional funds were sought to handle unexpected problems uncovered during the work and to provide for ongoing physical maintenance. See also List of Baptist churches in Alabama List of National Historic Landmarks in Alabama List of national monuments of the United States Birmingham Civil Rights National Monument References Henderson, Jesse (May 21, 2021). "Sixteenth Street Baptist Church, Sunday Worship: Redefining History and Reaching Community." Magic City Religion. Norris, Toraine (February 17, 2006). "Sixteenth Street Baptist named U.S. landmark." Birmingham News Further reading Michael S. Harper's poem American History talks about the church bombing External links Archival material at the Birmingham Public Library website of the Birmingham Civil Rights Institute Guide to Birmingham's Civil Rights District 16th Street Baptist Church, 1530 Sixth Avenue North, Birmingham, Jefferson County, AL, with 16 drawings, 18 photographs, 2 photo caption page and 35 data pages at Historic American Engineering Record African-American history in Birmingham, Alabama National Register of Historic Places in Birmingham, Alabama Baptist churches in Alabama Civil rights movement National Historic Landmarks in Alabama Churches on the National Register of Historic Places in Alabama Religious organizations established in 1873 Churches completed in 1911 19th-century Baptist churches in the United States Properties on the Alabama Register of Landmarks and Heritage Romanesque Revival church buildings in Alabama Byzantine Revival architecture in Alabama Baptist churches in Birmingham, Alabama Civil rights movement museums Historic American Buildings Survey in Alabama 1911 establishments in Alabama African-American tourist attractions in Alabama
Rebatching, or hand milling, is a soapmaking technique used by hobbyists and artisan soapmakers. The commercial equivalent is French milling. In rebatching, commercially purchased or previously made soap (a soap base) is shredded or diced finely and mixed with a liquid, into which the soap shreds begin to dissolve. It is then heated at a fairly low temperature until the mass is more or less homogeneous. When it becomes translucent and reaches a thick, gel-like consistency, it is spooned or piped into molds and allowed to harden. Soapmakers frequently use rebatching as a way of adding substances that could not withstand the high temperatures or caustic chemical environment of cold process or hot process soapmaking, such as certain essential oils (for example, those with a very low flash point). The choice of liquid affects the character of the finished soap; milk is frequently used to give the soap a smooth, creamy consistency. Rebatching can also be used as a way of salvaging soap that cracked, curdled or separated while being made. As with the melt and pour process, rebatching does not necessarily involve saponification, and as such it is a misnomer to refer to it as soap-"making". Soaps Handicrafts
Prayagraj Airport , formerly known as Allahabad Airport, is the domestic airport serving the city of Prayagraj, Uttar Pradesh, India. Located in the Bamrauli suburb of the city, it is one of the oldest airports in India. This airport is currently under joint operation of the Indian Air Force and the Airports Authority of India. It is the third busiest airport in Uttar Pradesh after Lucknow International Airport and Varanasi International Airport in terms of passenger traffic and aircraft movements. Foreseeing the Kumbh 2019, the airport was upgraded with the addition of a new civil terminal extension in 2018, which was constructed in a record 11 months by the TATA Projects group. The airport continues to serve domestic destinations across the country, and is set to be converted into an international airport before Kumbh 2025. Bamrauli Air Force Station It is located in the Bamrauli area of Prayagraj and it is the headquarters of Central Air Command. It is one of the bases of Indian Armed Forces which operates under Central Air Command of Indian Air Force. History On 18 February 1911, the domestic commercial aviation took birth in India where Henri Piquet flew a Humber bi-plane carrying mail from a polo field at Allahabad (now Prayagraj) to Naini, which is approximately six miles away. The construction of airport at Allahabad with dedicated airfield was started in 1924. In 1931, the aerodrome at Allahabad was set up and the foundation for Air Traffic control services was laid with the appointment of an Indian Aerodrome Officer, specially trained at the airport in the UK. It was among the first four international airports of the country. It catered to international flights with direct services to London till 1932. In July 1933, Imperial Airways commenced the operation of its flight on the Karachi-Jodhpur-Delhi-Kanpur-Allahabad-Kolkata route, which ran until June 1940. The airfield at Bamrauli was also used as one of the five compulsory stops of the MacRobertson Trophy Air Race which took place in October 1934. From 1941 to the early 2000s, the airport did not cater to any regular commercial flight services. In early months of 2003, Air Sahara became the first carrier to re-introduce services at the airport with connectivity to cities like Delhi and Kolkata. However, the services soon became defunct following economic crisis. In 2005, Alliance Air (a regional connectivity subsidiary under Air India) started its Allahabad-Delhi flight service on the ATR-72 fleet, which continues to be operational to this date, with minor non-operational periods in between. In 2013, SpiceJet introduced its operation in the Delhi-Allahabad sector, along with Alliance Air commencing its Allahabad-Mumbai flight, both of which were closed down due to non-availability of ILS and Night Landing facility at the airport after running for a few months. Seeking limited operational and structural facilities, construction of a new civilian terminal and installation of ILS system on existing runway began in January 2018. The newly constructed terminal was opened to public in January 2019 and since then is serving regular flight operations at Prayagraj. Structure Runway The airport is served by a single runway 12/30, which is long and wide. Landing amenities The airport has ILS CAT-I compliant for landing during the night, bad weather and foggy conditions. The Instrument Landing System was installed during 2018–2019 expansion phase, along with construction of the new terminal. Other than enhancing safety for landing of flights in visibility as low as 550 meters, the installation of ILS finally allowed the airport to operate flights at night. New terminal Construction of the new terminal began in January 2018 and was completed in December 2018. It was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The terminal was constructed for . A total of was allocated for the construction of this terminal. The terminal is 6700 square meter; has a peak hour capacity of 300 passengers and four aircraft parking bays for Airbus A320 and Boeing 737. The building has an electric operated trolley gate on the link taxi track to segregate the operational area of Airports Authority of India and Indian Air Force. There has been use of fly ash bricks; double insulated door and the building is equipped with water harvesting and has a sewage treatment plant of its own. Phase 2 extension In February 2021, it was reported that there are plans for complete makeover of the civil enclave of Prayagraj in Bamrauli in terms of size and the facilities. The AAI proposed an increase in the airport area twice its current size, with the present building of the airport being expanded on both sides, keeping the terminal same. It will also include increasing the size of lounge, the number of aprons and the possibility to add two more aero-bridges. Airlines and destinations Statistics See also List of airports in India List of the busiest airports in India Lal Bahadur Shastri Airport Gaya Airport References External links Airports in Uttar Pradesh Transport in Prayagraj Indian Air Force bases Buildings and structures in Prayagraj World War II sites in India Airports established in 1919 1919 establishments in India 20th-century architecture in India
Fiona Leggate (born 28 May 1980) is a British auto racing driver. Early career Leggate had been interested in motorsport since her childhood, influenced by her father Malcolm Leggate who had a 19-year career in saloon car racing. After competing in showjumping and dressage events (once breaking both her wrists at once when she was 10) she switched her attention from horseriding to horsepower, entering and winning a competition to drive with ex-British Rally Champion Gwyndaf Evans. This led to her spending 2003 and 2004 contesting various championships including Britcar and the MG XPower trophy, and in July 2004 she set a world record for the most races contested in one day. British Touring Car Championship (BTCC) Leggate entered the BTCC in 2005, joining halfway through the season in a Vauxhall Astra Coupé acquired from the championship-winning works team 888, but converted to run on bioethanol fuel and run by the Leamington Spa based Tech-Speed team. She scored 12 points including a 5th place at Silverstone, gaining much publicity for the environmentally-friendly fuel. For 2006 Leggate once again raced in the BTCC in the same car running on bio-ethanol, with new sponsorship from Vauxhall dealer Thurlby Motors as well as continuing support from the Energy Efficient Motorsport (EEMS) scheme. Her best results were a trio of 10th places. She missed the races at round 6 due to a cracked engine cylinder. After also missing round 8, she withdrew from the series, her replacement being Paul O'Neill for the remaining two rounds of the series. In 2007, she again raced in the BTCC with the Kartworld team using an ex-WSR MG ZS fuelled once again with bio-ethanol. She also raced in the EERC Production S1 championship with the same MG ZR that she used in 2006. Other racing In 2006 Leggate competed in non-clashing Britcar Production S1 races in an MG ZR. She was partnered once by MG racer Paul White in March at Silverstone and then Rob Oldaker in June at Brands Hatch. Leggate and Oldaker were then joined by MG Trophy racer Ben Jacques and Italian BMW racer Umberto Nacamuli for the Silverstone 24-hour race. The car retired with engine failure with only just over an hour to go. She also competed in the Mini Challenge, driving at Thruxton and Spa, although she missed race two there due to failure of the engine electronics. As well as this she also raced another MG ZR in two endurance races at the MGCC Silverstone meeting in June. She was partnered in Race 1 by Regular driver Rob Oldaker and by Mark Stacey for the second race. The car retired from the second race with head gasket failure. In 2007 Leggate entered the PS1 Championship, where she won her class in the first four races, as well as having the class pole at the two meetings and fastest lap. Personal life She was previously married to Danny Watts. They have one son. Racing record Complete British Touring Car Championship results (key) (Races in bold indicate pole position – 1 point awarded just in first race) (Races in italics indicate fastest lap – 1 point awarded all races) (* signifies that driver lead race for at least one lap – 1 point awarded all races) Britcar 24 Hour results References External links Official website Profile from btccinfo.co.uk 1980 births Living people English racing drivers British Touring Car Championship drivers Sportspeople from Lincolnshire English female racing drivers Britcar 24-hour drivers
Michael John York (born 16 October 1967 in Tamworth, NSW) is a former field hockey defender from Australia, who participated in four Summer Olympics for his native country, starting in 1988. From 1992 on, at each appearance the skilled veteran won a medal. External links 1967 births Australian male field hockey players Male field hockey defenders Olympic field hockey players for Australia Olympic silver medalists for Australia Olympic bronze medalists for Australia Field hockey players at the 1988 Summer Olympics Field hockey players at the 1992 Summer Olympics Field hockey players at the 1996 Summer Olympics 1998 Men's Hockey World Cup players Field hockey players at the 2000 Summer Olympics Living people Sportspeople from Tamworth, New South Wales Olympic medalists in field hockey Medalists at the 2000 Summer Olympics Medalists at the 1996 Summer Olympics Medalists at the 1992 Summer Olympics Commonwealth Games medallists in field hockey Commonwealth Games gold medallists for Australia ACT Academy of Sport alumni Field hockey players at the 1998 Commonwealth Games 1990 Men's Hockey World Cup players Sportsmen from New South Wales 20th-century Australian people Field hockey people from New South Wales Medallists at the 1998 Commonwealth Games
Olandis C. Gary (born May 18, 1975) is a former American football running back who played for the Denver Broncos from 1999 to 2002 and the Detroit Lions from 2003 to 2004. He was drafted in the fourth round of the 1999 NFL Draft. He is an alumnus of the University of Georgia and Riverdale Baptist School. His best season came in 1999 when, replacing an injured Terrell Davis, he rushed for 1,159 yards on 276 attempts, a 4.2 yards per carry average, with seven touchdowns. He injured his knee the following season and appeared to never fully recover, as his success was limited in the following years. He was one of many Broncos running backs to have success in Denver's potent run blocking system, along with Davis, Mike Anderson, Clinton Portis, Reuben Droughns, Tatum Bell, Mike Bell, Selvin Young, and Quentin Griffin. 's NFL off-season, Olandis Gary still held at least 2 Broncos franchise records, including: Rush Attempts: rookie game (37 on 1999-10-17 GNB; with Mike Anderson) Rush Yds/Game: rookie season (96.6 in 1999) College Statistics 1997: 66 carries for 381 yards with 7 TD. 7 catches for 75 yards with 1 TD. 1998: 143 carries for 698 yards with 10 TD. 10 catches for 117 yards. References External links Detroit Lions' player page Stats at databaseFootball.com 1975 births Living people Players of American football from Washington, D.C. American football running backs Marshall Thundering Herd football players Georgia Bulldogs football players Denver Broncos players San Diego Chargers players Detroit Lions players
The Standards Department was a department of the English Board of Trade having the custody of the imperial standards of weights and measures. History As far back as can be traced, the standard weights and measures, the primary instruments for determining the justness of all other weights and measures used in the United Kingdom, were kept at the Exchequer, and the duties relating to these standards were imposed upon the chamberlains of the Exchequer. The office of chamberlains was abolished in 1826 using the Receipt of the Exchequer Act 1783, but the custody of the standards and any duties connected to them remained attached to an officer in the Exchequer until that department was abolished by the Exchequer and Audit Departments Act 1866. Meanwhile, in pursuance of recommendations of Standard Commissions of 1841 and 1854 and a House of Commons committee of 1862, the Standards of Weights, Measures, and Coinage Act 1866 was passed. This act created a special department of the Board of Trade, called the Standard Weights and Measures Department, and a head of that department styled the Warden of the Standards. His duty was to conduct comparisons, verifications and operations with reference to the standards in aid of scientific research and otherwise. Directors Henry Williams Chisholm, warden of the standards (1866–1878), father of Hugh Chisholm Henry James Chaney (March 1842–13 February 1906), superintendent of weights and measures (1878–1906) References Bibliography " Department for Business, Innovation and Skills Defunct departments of the Government of the United Kingdom Defunct public bodies of the United Kingdom Board of Trade Standards organisations in the United Kingdom
Syed Akbar Hussain, popularly known as Akbar Allahabadi (16 November 1846 – 9 September 1921) was an Indian Urdu poet in the genre of satire. The most popular of Akbar's verse poked fun at the cultural dilemma posed by the onslaught of Western British culture. His ire was mostly directed towards the natives he considered to be outlandishly pseudo-western. In the Indian community he became known as 'Lisanu'l-Asr' ( Poet of the age.) Life and career Early life Akbar Allahabadi was born in the town of Bara, eleven miles from Allahabad, to a family of Sayyads who originally came to India from Persia as soldiers. His grandfather, Sayyid Fazl-i-Mohmmad, had Shia leanings but his three sons, Wasil 'Ali, Waris 'Ali and Tafazzul Husain were all Sunnis. Akbar's father, Moulvi Tafazzul Hussain served as a Naib Tehsildar to his brother Waris ' Ali, who was the Tehsildar, and his mother belonged to a zamindar family of Jagdishpur village from the Gaya district in Bihar. Akbar received his early education in Arabic, Persian and Mathematics from his father at home. In 1855, his mother moved to Allahabad and settled in Mohalla Chowk. Akbar was admitted to the Jamuna Mission School for an English education in 1856, but he abandoned his school education in 1859. However, he continued to study English and read widely. Career On leaving school, Akbar joined the Railway Engineering Department as a clerk. While in service, he passed the exam qualifying him as a Vakeel (barrister) and subsequently worked as a Tehsildar and a munsif, and ultimately, as a sessions court judge. To commemorate his work in judicial services, he was bestowed with the title, Khan Bahadur. Marriage Akbar's first marriage was at the age of 15 and arranged by his parents. His wife's name was Khadija Khatun, who was four years older than him. This was not a successful marriage and Akbar took no pleasure in it despite having two sons with Khadija named Nazir Husain and Abid Husain. After divorcing their mother, Akbar didn't really pay these three any attention and they had to make do with a sum of forty rupees a month, which he gave as alimony. Both of these sons due to lack of support from their father, didn't fare well in life and not much is known about them. His second marriage to Fatima Sughra (died 1910) was a lot more successful and brought him a lot of happiness. Together they had two sons, Ishrat Husain and Hashim Husain. Ishrat was sent to England for three years to become a lawyer but didn't return even after six. but he barely passed his B.A from Cambridge and never sat for the Bar examinations. Instead he fancied himself a person of the arts and applied to be a playwright and an actor without any success. This he attributed to the prejudice against Hindustanis in England of that time. He became too Anglicised in his ways of thinking and living for Akbar's liking. Later in life Ishrat became a Collector. The Younger son Hashim pleased his father and stayed with him until his death in 1931. Death Akbar retired in 1905 and lived on in Allahabad. He died of a fever on September 9, 1921 and was buried in Himmatganj locality of Allahabad. Legacy "Hungama Hai Kyon Barpa" is a popular ghazal, written by Akbar Allahabadi and most prominently sung by Ghulam Ali. Verses from his poetry also found their way into the famous qawwali “Tum ik Gorakh Dhanda Ho” by Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan. A number of Akbar Allahabadi's poems were used in the 2015 Hindi film Masaan. Explaining this as a conscious tribute, the film's lyrics writer Varun Grover explained that he wanted to show one of the female leads Shaalu (played by Shweta Tripathi) as a person whose hobby is to read Hindi poetry and Shayri. References External links Akbar Allahabadi at Kavita Kosh (Hindi) A few of Akbar Allahabadi's ghazals Indian male poets Urdu-language poets from India 19th-century Indian Muslims Writers from Prayagraj 1846 births 1921 deaths Urdu-language writers from British India 20th-century Urdu-language writers 19th-century Urdu-language writers Urdu-language religious writers Urdu-language letter writers Urdu-language theologians 19th-century Indian poets 20th-century Indian poets Poets from Uttar Pradesh 19th-century Indian male writers 20th-century Indian male writers
Serra do Bussaco ( ) is a mountain range in Portugal, formerly included in the province of Beira Litoral. The highest point in the range is the Cruz Alta at 549 m (1801 feet), which has views over the Serra da Estrela, the Mondego River valley and the Atlantic Ocean. The Serra includes the buildings of a secularized Carmelite monastery, founded in 1628. The convent woods have long been known for their cypress, plane, evergreen oak, cork and other forest trees, many of which have stood for centuries and attained an immense size. A bull of Pope Gregory XV (1623), anathematizing trespassers and forbidding women to approach, is inscribed on a tablet at the main entrance; another bull, of Pope Urban VIII (1643), threatens with excommunication any person harming the trees. Located in the northwestern corner is the Mata Nacional do Bussaco (Bussaco Forest), an ancient walled arboretum. Towards the close of the 19th century the Serra de Bussaco became one of the regular halting-places for foreign, and especially for British, tourists, on the overland route between Lisbon and Porto. The Palace Hotel of Bussaco (Palácio Hotel do Bussaco), built between 1888 and 1905 in an exuberant Neo-Manueline style, still attracts tourists. In 1873 a monument was erected, on the southern slopes of the Serra, to commemorate the Battle of Bussaco, in which the French, under Marshal Masséna, were defeated by the Anglo-Portuguese Army, under Lord Wellington, on 27 September 1810. References Mountain ranges of Portugal
Paul Morris (born November 2, 1959) is an American musician best known as a keyboardist in Ritchie Blackmore's Rainbow. He played keyboards on the Stranger in Us All album and co-wrote the song "Black Masquerade". Biography Paul Morris studied piano as a child in New York City. He studied under well-known jazz pianists, Lennie Tristano, Hal Galper, and Sal Mosca. He began his career playing with some local bands on Long Island named Vixen and Full House. He then played with Todd Wolfe in the band, Troy and the Tornados. Todd Wolf later became the guitarist for Sheryl Crow. In 1989 Paul got a call from rock drummer Bobby Rondinelli to play keyboards for Doro Pesch's first solo tour without Warlock for the Force Majeure album tour. In 1990 Paul Morris played keyboards on the Doro (album) by former Warlock singer Doro Pesch. The album was produced by Gene Simmons. In 1990 he went on tour with Doro Pesch promoting the Doro (album). In 1992 Paul Morris toured with heavy metal violinist Mark Wood through the US and Canada. In 1994, Paul Morris was notified that Ritchie Blackmore was looking for a keyboardist. He sent Ritchie Blackmore a tape, auditioned, and was hired. He played on the STRANGER IN US All and co-wrote "Black Masquerade", which then became a fan favorite. He then performed with Rainbow for two European tours, one tour in Japan, South America, and in the US. In 1997, Paul Morris toured with Nena of "99 Luftballons" fame featuring, Tony Bruno on guitar, and Tommy Price on drums. This was followed by a tour with The Teen Idols starring Davy Jones, Peter Noone and Bobby Sherman. In 2000, Morris received a call from the musical director of Trans-Siberian Orchestra, Al Pitrelli, to play with the West Coast Trans-Siberian Orchestra for the holiday season. After this tour, Morris continued his career composing and producing his own original music and doing session work. In 2002, Morris joined an 11 piece soul band called the Sensational Soul Cruisers where he remained until 2007. In 2009, Morris was approached by Joe Lynn Turner asking him to fill in for Tony Carey who had become very ill. Two weeks later Over the Rainbow performed at the Sweden Rock Festival. Morris continued touring with Over the Rainbow for the next two years. In 2011, Morris worked on a new Christmas CD by The Kings of Christmas, a new group composed primarily of former Trans-Siberian Orchestra singers and musicians. In 2017 Moogy had a short run/tour with Yngwie Malmsteen the virtuoso guitarist. Paul Morris is currently playing with one of the nation's top Bon Jovi tribute bands named Slippery When Wet as well as top 80's party band Jessie's Girl. You'll be able to catch Moogy on tour "Rock Legends Bon Fire and friends tour" this November 2018 throughout Germany. Paul will be touring with Purpendicular featuring Ian Paice Nov.5th to the 25th 2019 in Germany and France. Late in 2019 Paul was invited to play with Deeper Purple, a Deep Purple tribute band, on their UK tour in March 2020 and Paul subsequently joined the band. Paul Morris married Rose Grego in November 1997. Discography With The Syntherchestra 1985 – The Syntherchestra With Doro Pesch 1990 – Doro With Ritchie Blackmore's Rainbow 1995 – Stranger in Us All With Joe Lynn Turner 1998 – Hurry Up and Wait 1999 – Under Cover 2 2002 – Slam 2003 – JLT 2005 – The Usual Suspects (album) With Randy Coven 1999 – Witch Way With Metalium 2000 – State of Triumph: Chapter Two With Trans-Siberian Orchestra 2000/2001 With Angus Clark 2004 – Grace Period With Chris Caffery 2004 – The Mold EP 2004 – Music Man EP 2005 – Faces 2005 – W.A.R.P.E.D. 2007 – Pins and Needles With The Kings of Christmas 2011 – The Kings of Christmas Easy Living 2014 – Easy Living References 1959 births Living people Musicians from Santa Monica, California American heavy metal keyboardists American rock keyboardists Rainbow (rock band) members 21st-century American keyboardists 20th-century American keyboardists Bonfire (band) members
Thomas Leabhart (born 1944) is an American corporeal mime and corporeal mime teacher. Leabhart studied at the Ecole de Mime Etienne Decroux, Paris under the instruction of master mime and teacher Etienne Decroux from 1968 to 1972. He currently performs and teaches regularly in France and has performed and taught workshops at the Museum of Design in Zürich, The Austrian Theatre Museum in Vienna, the National Museum of Ethnology in Osaka, the American Center in Montevideo, Movement Theatre International in Philadelphia, and many other venues. He is editor of Mime Journal and has authored over 35 articles. He is resident artist and professor of theatre at Pomona College in Claremont, California, and continues to publish translations of Decroux's writings and methods in English. Leabhart is the most published writer on the subject of Corporeal Mime—chronicling its rise and development in the modern theatre and is closely associated with the International School of Theatre Anthropology (ISTA). He is also the author of one of the standard works on modern mime, Modern and Post-Modern Mime (Macmillan in London and St. Martin's Press, NYC). In it, Leabhart explains that modern mime, a major creative art form in recent years, has its roots in the work Jacques Copeau did at the Ecole de Vieux-Colombier in Paris in the 1920s. Copeau looked to remedy the 'ills of the theater' by turning to the golden ages of Greek theater, Noh, Kabuki, Elizabethan theatre and Commedia dell'arte. In his classes (one of which, called 'corporeal mime,' inspired Etienne Decroux to develop the mime technique of the same name), Copeau emphasized the expressive potential of the actor's whole body, rather than the voice, hands and face (though his actors trained to use those, as well). Leabhart examines the contributions of Decroux, Jean-Louis Barrault, Marcel Marceau, and Jacques Lecoq to the development of this new form. Publications Leabhart's Mime Journal Leabhart's Etienne Decroux (Routledge Performance Practitioners) References External links Leabhart's page at Pomona College Personal website 1944 births Living people American mimes Pomona College faculty
Jane Feather (born Jane Robotham 1945 in Cairo, Egypt) is a popular British–American writer of historical romance novels. In 1984 she wrote five contemporary romances under the pseudonym Claudia Bishop. She is a New York Times-bestselling, award–winning writer, and has more than ten million romance novels in print. Biography Jane Robotham was born on 1945 in Cairo, (Egypt), and grew up in New Forest, in the south of England. She has a master's degree in applied social studies from Oxford University. She is married and has three children. In 1978 she moved with her husband and children to New Jersey, where she worked as a psychiatric social worker. In 1981 she began her writing career after she and her family moved to Washington D.C. Since printing in 1984 she wrote five contemporary romance novels under the pen name Claudia Bishop and since 1986 has written historical romances under her name, Jane Feather. References External links Jane Feather at Fantastic Fiction British romantic fiction writers Living people 1945 births
Indexing Service (originally called Index Server) was a Windows service that maintained an index of most of the files on a computer to improve searching performance on PCs and corporate computer networks. It updated indexes without user intervention. In Windows Vista it was replaced by the newer Windows Search Indexer. The IFilter plugins to extend the indexing capabilities to more file formats and protocols are compatible between the legacy Indexing Service how and the newer Windows Search Indexer. History Indexing Service was a desktop search service included with Windows NT 4.0 Option Pack as well as Windows 2000 and later. The first incarnation of the indexing service was shipped in August 1996 as a content search system for Microsoft's web server software, Internet Information Services. Its origins, however, date further back to Microsoft's Cairo operating system project, with the component serving as the Content Indexer for the Object File System. Cairo was eventually shelved, but the content indexing capabilities would go on to be included as a standard component of later Windows desktop and server operating systems, starting with Windows 2000, which includes Indexing Service 3.0. In Windows Vista, the content indexer was replaced with the Windows Search indexer which was enabled by default. Indexing Service is still included with Windows Server 2008 but is not installed or running by default. Indexing Service has been deprecated in Windows 7 and Windows Server 2008 R2. It has been removed from Windows 8. Search interfaces Comprehensive searching is available after initial building of the index, which can take up to hours or days, depending on the size of the specified directories, the speed of the hard drive, user activity, indexer settings and other factors. Searching using Indexing service works also on UNC paths and/or mapped network drives if the sharing server indexes appropriate directory and is aware of its sharing. Once the indexing service has been turned on and has built its index it can be searched in three ways. The search option available from the Start menu on the Windows Taskbar will use the indexing service if it is enabled and will even accept complex queries. Queries can also be performed using either the Indexing Service Query Form in the Computer Management snap-in of Microsoft Management Console, or, alternatively, using third-party applications such as 'Aim at File' or 'Grokker Desktop'. References Windows communication and services Desktop search engines Information retrieval systems Windows components
Church of the Transfiguration or Holy Transfiguration Church may refer to any of the following: Albania Holy Transfiguration Church, Gjirokastër Church of the Holy Transfiguration, Herebel, Dibër County Belarus Transfiguration Church, Navahrudak, Grodno Region (Roman Catholic) Transfiguration Church, Polotsk, Vitebsk Region Croatia Church of the Transfiguration of the Lord, Trpinja, Vukovar-Srijem County (Serbian Orthodox) Estonia The Obinitsa Church of Transfiguration of Our Lord, Meremäe Parish Hungary Transfiguration Church, Szentendre, Pest County (Serbian Orthodox) Lithuania Holy Transfiguration Church, Kėdainiai, Kaunas County Italy Trasfigurazione di Nostro Signore Gesù Cristo, Rome Israel Catholic Church of the Transfiguration on Mount Tabor Orthodox Church of the Transfiguration on Mount Tabor Malta Church of the Transfiguration, Qrendi Moldova Transfiguration Church, Chișinău Palestine Church of Transfiguration, Ramallah Romania Transfiguration Church, Hunedoara Russia Church of the Transfiguration on Ilyina Street, Veliky Novgorod, Novgorod Oblast Church of the Transfiguration in Kizhi, Republic of Karelia, a World Heritage Site Transfiguration Church in Kovalyovo, Novgorod Oblast Transfiguration Church, Krasnoyarsk (Roman Catholic) Transfiguration Church, Pyatigorsk, Stavropol Krai (Roman Catholic) Church of the Transfiguration (Obukhovka), Rostov Oblast Church of the Transfiguration (Olkhovchik), Rostov Oblast Church of the Transfiguration (Spassky), Tula Oblast Transfiguration Church, Starocherkasskaya, Rostov Oblast Transfiguration of the Lord Church, Tver Church of the Transfiguration (Zaymo-Obryv), Rostov Oblast Serbia Church of the Holy Transfiguration, Sarajevo Church of the Transfiguration, Krivaja, Šabac Singapore Church of The Transfiguration, Singapore Turkmenistan Chapel of the Transfiguration, Ashgabat (Roman Catholic) Ukraine Church of Transfiguration, Lviv United Kingdom Church of the Transfiguration, Pyecombe, West Sussex United States Alaska Holy Transfiguration of Our Lord Chapel in Ninilchik Transfiguration of Our Lord Chapel in Nushagak Arkansas Holy Transfiguration Orthodox Church in Mountain Home California Church of the Transfiguration in San Jose (Roman Catholic) Connecticut Church of the Transfiguration in Norfolk (Episcopal) Illinois Church of the Transfiguration in Palos Park (Episcopal) Church of the Transfiguration in Wauconda (Roman Catholic) Maryland Transfiguration of our Lord Russian Orthodox Church in Baltimore Massachusetts Church of the Transfiguration in Orleans (Ecumenical; Roman-style basilica) Minnesota Episcopal Church of the Transfiguration (Belle Plaine, Minnesota) New Hampshire Church of the Transfiguration in Derry, New Hampshire (Episcopal) New Jersey Church of the Transfiguration in Collingswood (Roman Catholic) New York Church of the Transfiguration, Episcopal (Manhattan), also known as the Little Church Around the Corner, the first church to be named for the Transfiguration in the United States Church of the Transfiguration, Roman Catholic (Manhattan) on Mott Street in Chinatown, Manhattan (originally Zion Episcopal Protestant Church; now Roman Catholic) Church of the Transfiguration in Tarrytown (Roman Catholic) Church of the Transfiguration in Buffalo (Roman Catholic; closed in 1993) Church of the Transfiguration in Maspeth (Roman Catholic) Church of the Holy Transfiguration of Christ-on-the-Mount in Woodstock Church of the Transfiguration (Blue Mountain Lake, New York) Russian Orthodox Cathedral of the Transfiguration of Our Lord in Brooklyn North Carolina Church of the Transfiguration (Saluda, North Carolina) Ohio Transfiguration Church (Cleveland, Ohio) (Roman Catholic) Pennsylvania Church of the Transfiguration in Blue Ridge Summit (Episcopal) Transfiguration Church in West Hazleton (Roman Catholic) Texas Church of the Transfiguration in Dallas (Episcopal) Washington Church of Transfiguration in Tacoma (Russian Evangelical Baptist) Wyoming Chapel of the Transfiguration in Grand Teton National Park, near Jackson (Episcopal) See also Transfiguration Cathedral (disambiguation)
John Ulysses Mobley (born October 10, 1973) is a former American football linebacker who played eight seasons for the Denver Broncos from 1996 through 2003 in the National Football League (NFL). He is the cousin of former NBA player Cuttino Mobley. Biography One of nine children born to parents who divorced when he was thirteen years old, Mobley lived with his father until the age of sixteen. After his father suffered a stroke, Mobley moved in with his mother, who demanded he leave high school to help support his family. Mobley spent a year living on the street in an old car before a friend's family took him in. Lacking the academic credentials for a Division I school, Mobley went on to play college football for Kutztown University in 1991. Mobley made the starting lineup as a freshman and recorded nine tackles and a sack in his first college game, and earned an honorable mention on the All-American team as a sophomore. Mobley's college career came to a sudden halt in 1993, however, when coach Barry Fetterman was fired as a result of an NCAA investigation into academic violations at the school. The team's new coach, Al Leonzi, carried out his own investigation and ended up declaring Mobley ineligible for the upcoming season. Mobley subsequently resolved his academic status, and returned for the 1994 and 1995 seasons, earning first-team AP Little All-American selections as a junior and senior and a Division II invitation to the Senior Bowl in Mobile, Alabama. He was drafted in the first round of the 1996 NFL Draft by the Denver Broncos, making him the highest drafted player in the history of the Pennsylvania State Athletic Conference, and just the third player from Kutztown ever to be drafted. Mobley's best season occurred in 1997. He had 132 tackles and four sacks and was an All-Pro that season; however, he missed most of the 1999 season because of an injury. Mobley suffered a bruised spinal column during the 2003 season after colliding with his teammate Kelly Herndon in a game against the Baltimore Ravens. The injury was severe enough that the Broncos cut him before the 2004 season in order to allow him time for recovery. He later re-signed with the Broncos and retired because of the injury. Mobley served seven days in prison for a DUI conviction in 2004 after being pulled over and arrested on December 28, 2002. He was found guilty by a jury in April 2004 and was sentenced to 365 days behind bars, but the judge in the case later reduced it to seven days. In Super Bowl XXXII, Mobley deflected a Brett Favre pass on 4th and 6 from the 31-yard-line with just over 30 seconds left in the game. The deflection sealed a 31-24 victory for the Broncos and ended the NFC's run of 13 straight wins over the AFC in Super Bowl competition. During his career, Mobley played in 105 career games, starting 102 of them, including two Super Bowls, during which he made 608 career tackles, 10.5 quarterback sacks, and five interceptions for 45 yards and a touchdown. References External links http://sports.espn.go.com/nfl/players/profile?statsId=3604 http://sportsillustrated.cnn.com/football/nfl/players/3604/ 1973 births Living people Sportspeople from Delaware County, Pennsylvania Players of American football from Chester, Pennsylvania American football linebackers Kutztown Golden Bears football players Denver Broncos players
Barry John Dancer (born 27 August 1952 in Brisbane, Queensland) is a former Australian field hockey player and coach of Australian men's national field hockey team. As a player he competed in 48 international matches for Australia between 1973 and 1979. he was a member of the men's hockey team that won a silver medal at the 1976 Summer Olympics. Dancer coached the English men's hockey team from 1997 to 1999 and the Great Britain team at the 2000 Summer Olympics, where the team came sixth. Dancer took up the position of Head Coach of the Australian men's national field hockey team in 2001 and retired the position after 2008 Summer Olympics. Coaching results for the Australian team at major competitions: 2001: 2nd - Champions Trophy 2002: 2nd - World Cup ; 5th - Champions Trophy ; 1st - Commonwealth Games 2003: 2nd - Champions Trophy 2004: 1st - Athens Olympics 2005: 1st - Champions Trophy 2006: 2nd - World Cup ; 4th -Champions Trophy ; 1st - Commonwealth Games 2007: 2nd - Champions Trophy 2008: 3rd - Beijing Olympics ; 1st - Champions Trophy Australia won its first Olympic gold medal at the 2004 Athens Olympics. Dancer was Head Coach of the Australian Institute of Sport men's hockey program from 2001 to 2008. His son Brent Dancer has represented Australia in hockey. References External links 1952 births Australian field hockey coaches Australian Institute of Sport coaches Australian male field hockey players Olympic coaches for Australia Field hockey people from Queensland Field hockey players at the 1976 Summer Olympics Medalists at the 1976 Summer Olympics Olympic field hockey players for Australia Olympic medalists in field hockey Olympic silver medalists for Australia Sportspeople from Brisbane Living people Olympic coaches for Great Britain Sportsmen from Queensland
In number theory, a polite number is a positive integer that can be written as the sum of two or more consecutive positive integers. A positive integer which is not polite is called impolite. The impolite numbers are exactly the powers of two, and the polite numbers are the natural numbers that are not powers of two. Polite numbers have also been called staircase numbers because the Young diagrams which represent graphically the partitions of a polite number into consecutive integers (in the French notation of drawing these diagrams) resemble staircases. If all numbers in the sum are strictly greater than one, the numbers so formed are also called trapezoidal numbers because they represent patterns of points arranged in a trapezoid. The problem of representing numbers as sums of consecutive integers and of counting the number of representations of this type has been studied by Sylvester, Mason, Leveque, and many other more recent authors. The polite numbers describe the possible numbers of sides of the Reinhardt polygons. Examples and characterization The first few polite numbers are 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, ... . The impolite numbers are exactly the powers of two. It follows from the Lambek–Moser theorem that the nth polite number is f(n + 1), where Politeness The politeness of a positive number is defined as the number of ways it can be expressed as the sum of consecutive integers. For every x, the politeness of x equals the number of odd divisors of x that are greater than one. The politeness of the numbers 1, 2, 3, ... is 0, 0, 1, 0, 1, 1, 1, 0, 2, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 3, 0, 1, 2, 1, 1, 3, ... . For instance, the politeness of 9 is 2 because it has two odd divisors, 3 and 9, and two polite representations 9 = 2 + 3 + 4 = 4 + 5; the politeness of 15 is 3 because it has three odd divisors, 3, 5, and 15, and (as is familiar to cribbage players) three polite representations 15 = 4 + 5 + 6 = 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5 = 7 + 8. An easy way of calculating the politeness of a positive number by decomposing the number into its prime factors, taking the powers of all prime factors greater than 2, adding 1 to all of them, multiplying the numbers thus obtained with each other and subtracting 1. For instance 90 has politeness 5 because ; the powers of 3 and 5 are respectively 2 and 1, and applying this method . Construction of polite representations from odd divisors To see the connection between odd divisors and polite representations, suppose a number x has the odd divisor y > 1. Then y consecutive integers centered on x/y (so that their average value is x/y) have x as their sum: Some of the terms in this sum may be zero or negative. However, if a term is zero it can be omitted and any negative terms may be used to cancel positive ones, leading to a polite representation for x. (The requirement that y > 1 corresponds to the requirement that a polite representation have more than one term; applying the same construction for y = 1 would just lead to the trivial one-term representation x = x.) For instance, the polite number x = 14 has a single nontrivial odd divisor, 7. It is therefore the sum of 7 consecutive numbers centered at 14/7 = 2: 14 = (2 − 3) + (2 − 2) + (2 − 1) + 2 + (2 + 1) + (2 + 2) + (2 + 3). The first term, −1, cancels a later +1, and the second term, zero, can be omitted, leading to the polite representation 14 = 2 + (2 + 1) + (2 + 2) + (2 + 3) = 2 + 3 + 4 + 5. Conversely, every polite representation of x can be formed from this construction. If a representation has an odd number of terms, x/y is the middle term, while if it has an even number of terms and its minimum value is m it may be extended in a unique way to a longer sequence with the same sum and an odd number of terms, by including the 2m − 1 numbers −(m − 1), −(m − 2), ..., −1, 0, 1, ..., m − 2, m − 1. After this extension, again, x/y is the middle term. By this construction, the polite representations of a number and its odd divisors greater than one may be placed into a one-to-one correspondence, giving a bijective proof of the characterization of polite numbers and politeness. More generally, the same idea gives a two-to-one correspondence between, on the one hand, representations as a sum of consecutive integers (allowing zero, negative numbers, and single-term representations) and on the other hand odd divisors (including 1). Another generalization of this result states that, for any n, the number of partitions of n into odd numbers having k distinct values equals the number of partitions of n into distinct numbers having k maximal runs of consecutive numbers. Here a run is one or more consecutive values such that the next larger and the next smaller consecutive values are not part of the partition; for instance the partition 10 = 1 + 4 + 5 has two runs, 1 and 4 + 5. A polite representation has a single run, and a partition with one value d is equivalent to a factorization of n as the product d ⋅ (n/d), so the special case k = 1 of this result states again the equivalence between polite representations and odd factors (including in this case the trivial representation n = n and the trivial odd factor 1). Trapezoidal numbers If a polite representation starts with 1, the number so represented is a triangular number Otherwise, it is the difference of two nonconsecutive triangular numbers This second case is called a trapezoidal number. One can also consider polite numbers that aren't trapezoidal. The only such numbers are the triangular numbers with only one nontrivial odd divisor, because for those numbers, according to the bijection described earlier, the odd divisor corresponds to the triangular representation and there can be no other polite representations. Thus, non-trapezoidal polite number must have the form of a power of two multiplied by an odd prime. As Jones and Lord observe, there are exactly two types of triangular numbers with this form: the even perfect numbers 2n − 1(2n − 1) formed by the product of a Mersenne prime 2n − 1 with half the nearest power of two, and the products 2n − 1(2n + 1) of a Fermat prime 2n + 1 with half the nearest power of two. . For instance, the perfect number 28 = 23 − 1(23 − 1) and the number 136 = 24 − 1(24 + 1) are both this type of polite number. It is conjectured that there are infinitely many Mersenne primes, in which case there are also infinitely many polite numbers of this type. References External links Introducing Runsums, R. Knott. Is there any pattern to the set of trapezoidal numbers? Intellectualism.org question of the day, October 2, 2003. With a diagram showing trapezoidal numbers color-coded by the number of terms in their expansions. Additive number theory Figurate numbers Integer sequences Quadrilaterals
